










ADMINISTRATOR ESSENTIALS TRAINING
(Adept Version 11.4)










          Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0

ADEPT ADMINISTRATOR ESSENTIALS TRAINING - Document version 08252023


























Synergis Software
A Division of Synergis Technologies, LLC Suite 100, 18 South 5th Street Quakertown, Pennsylvania 18951 U.S.A. 800.836.5440 / 215.302.3000
www.SynergisSoftware.com

No part of this document may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording or by any information storage and retrieval system without written permission from Synergis Software.

(c) Copyright 2000-2023Synergis Software, a division of Synergis Technologies, LLC. All rights reserved. All brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective owners.

WARNING AND DISCLAIMER
This document is designed to provide information about Adept Document Management. Every effort has been made to make it as complete and as accurate as possible. However, no warranty of suitability, purpose or fitness is made or implied. The authors and Synergis Software shall have neither liability nor responsibility to any person or entity with respect to loss or damages in connection, with or arising from, the information contained in this document.


Adept










BASIC CONCEPTS

























Synergis Software


           Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



Table of Contents
ABOUT SYNERGIS SOFTWARE	3
Adept Professional Services	3
ABOUT ADEPT	4
Adept Products	4
License Types	4
Authentication	5
ADEPT ARCHITECTURAL DIAGRAM	5
APPLICATIONS	6
TERMINOLOGY	8
FUNDAMENTALS	11
Adept Users	11
Library Group Access Rights	12
Administrator Types	12
Library Types and Document Version	13
Metadata	15
Document Status	16
Glyphs	16

ABOUT SYNERGIS SOFTWARE
Synergis Software is headquartered in Quakertown, Pennsylvania with a US-based support and development team. Synergis Software develops simple yet powerful Engineering Information Management solutions.
Ģ Over 30 years of experience developing, implementing & supporting enterprise Document management solution.
Ģ Privately held, no long-term debt or venture capital obligations.
Ģ Over 100 employees, average tenure over 8 years.
Ģ Autodesk Development Network partner for more than 20 years
Ģ Proud recipient of:

Adept Professional Services
Ģ Project Management
Ģ Application Consultants
Ł Assessment & systems design
Ł Implementation & configuration
Ł Installations and Upgrades
Ł Workflow consulting & optimization
Ł User and Admin Training
Ł Ongoing Consulting Services
Ģ Helpdesk - Outstanding Technical Support
Ģ Other
Ł Bulk synchronization of legacy documents
Ł Powerful Data Importer to connect Metadata
Ł Custom migrations from legacy systems
Ł Custom development to extend Adept Functionality
Ł Adept Integrator


ABOUT ADEPT
Adept is a robust data management software product that enables:
* Fast and secure access to documents located anywhere
* Leaves files & folders in native format
* Easy to implement, use, and maintain
* File versioning and revision control
* Full Text and Metadata searching
* Work on controlled copies, preserving the original, return to controlled location
* Replication among multiple locations
* Collaboration across departments and global sites, as well as externals contractors, vendors, and customers
* Workflows to automate manual processes, route documents for approvals and revisions, identify bottlenecks, send email notifications
* Data Management Integration within CAD applications (AutoCAD, Mechanical, electrical, Navisworks, Inventor, SolidWorks, and MicroStation)
* View, markup, edit, and compare hundreds of file types in Adept Viewer or native applications
* Comprehensive Audit Trails, Reports
* Automation of Transmittals
* Import Legacy Data
* Robust web interface for fast, easy access anywhere
Adept Products
* Adept Desktop
* Adept Web
* PublishWave (Optional add-on)
* Vault Replication with Binary Differencing
* Integrator (Optional) - for integrating with IT systems, ERP systems, and financial systems, and other applications (ex: SAP, JD Edwards, Oracle, IBM, SharePoint, Excel, Project, Salesforce, DynamicsSL, etc.)
* Custom Programming (Optional)
License Types
* Subscription Concurrent (floating)
* Subscription Named (locked)
* Subscription Named & Concurrent
* Adept Desktop Client
* Adept Web Client: Adept Creator, Adept Reviewer, Adept Explorer


Authentication
* Adept Username and Password
* Windows Username and Password
* Windows Username only
* Single Sign On (OpenID connect)
ADEPT ARCHITECTURAL DIAGRAM



APPLICATIONS

IconNameDescription





Adept ServersThe Adept Native Server provides the connectivity between the Adept Client (desktop), the Database, and the Adept Vault.The Adept Web Server (includes Adept WebAPI Services). The Adept Web Server runs on a Windows server and facilitates communication between Adept Web Clients, Adept Task Pane, the SQL server, and the Adept Vault.
















Adept DatabaseThis Database is the central storage for information, or metadata, about your documents.
The types of information stored include:
* Three Target Databases:
Current Database - contains the current metadata and pointer to the current documents within Adept.
History Database - contains historical records (contains metadata changes only).
Version Database - contains metadata and pointer to the previous versions of documents.
* Metadata
Ł Windows System: Windows date/time, file size, file extension.
Ł Adept System: Owner, Last Owner, Adept Status, Audit Trail
Ł Extracted: supported application properties (ex: from AutoCAD, Solidworks, Inventor)
Ł Manually entered: Notes, Comments
* Pointers to Documents: links to file location on the Server
* Relationships: links to other documents within Adept

Adept Licensing ToolA server-side utility used to:
* Serialize the Server
* Configure the Server
* Install the Adept Service

Adept DesignerA utility used to:
* Migrate from previous versions of Adept
* Create new database tables for a new installation
* Create and edit database fields, Data Cards and FileGuide Views

IconNameDescription








Package DatabaseThe Package Database application is used to create a self- extracting snapshot of all your databases. This can be used to back-up your databases. Synergis recommends a backup of the Adept Databases immediately before making any change to the database using Designer.
To restore the database from a Package Database, decompress the packaged document and run Import within the Adept Designer.
Note: Adept Administrators can also select Export from the Adept Designer File Menu to create a copy or to move the Adept Database to a different server.
Adept Desktop Client (ADC)The software that runs on a workstation and communicates with the Adept Server.



Adept Web Client (AWC)The Adept Web Client that is typically used is for Searching and Viewing Documents (Adept Explorer). Advanced features can include Workflow Approval, File Upload and Download, Data Card editing as well as Check in and Check Out. All web clients will enter the configured URL for your
organization, into any supported browser to access Adept.MOBILE CLIENTA PDA application for your Apple or Droid device, that allows you to copy a pdf from Adept, and view with no internet access.

AFS ServerInstalled on each server where an AFS Vault is located (hub or satellite). Allows for replication of Vaults across multiple servers. There is only one Hub and that hub can have many
satellites.





AFS DashboardThe AFS Dashboard is used to monitor and track progress and status of AFS Replication. Other functions are:
* Use to set satellite properties such as IP Subnet Mask.
* Shows if Satellites or Hub is online and communicating.
* Shows files waiting for replication and which have already replicated.
* Shows files Issues replicating.





PublishWave Server
(optional)An optional add-on application. PublishWave enables single or batch mode printing to hard copy or publishing to PDF, DWF or TIF formats directly from the Adept application leveraging the files native application. Documents can be pushed to PublishWave on an event (ex. Final approval). It is possible to have up to 4 icons- PublishWave Server, PublishWave Administration, P2A (PublishWave to Adept), and PublishWave DataBridge. Typically, Admins will access these icons directly from the PublishWave
Server. Users will only have these icons on their desktop if the Admin or IT allows.


TERMINOLOGY
NameIconDescription








Vaults









A Vault is a root folder of a directory tree that contains your Libraries (D:\<vault_name>). Adept does not restrict the number of vaults that you have configured. Adept Vaults are managed by your Adept Administrator(s).
Adept File System (AFS)Adept File System (AFS) provides both secure transfer of documents and the ability to replicate your files to different AFS satellite locations (on demand or scheduled). AFS can provide redundant storage for disaster recovery.
Binary Differencing - transfers only differences within filesFTPUses legacy File Transfer Protocol to transfer documents in and out of the Libraries. This method is secured by a single user and prevents document access using Windows Explorer.
FTPS can be setup for secure file transferDirectA network share accessible directly through Windows and controlled by network rights.
Library
Adept Libraries are containers for your Documents and are located beneath the Vault. Each folder in Windows that is controlled by Adept becomes a library. Each library has its own set of permissions.

Library Group

Groups are used to manage the assignment of rights to users. All members of a Group have the same rights for a given library.
A Group may have any number of users. The same Group could have different rights in different Libraries.
Note: Groups can be connected to your Active Directory Groups for synchronization.
Personal Group
Adept allows you to create and edit lists of users called Personal Groups. You can share lists of documents, settings, favorites, saved searches, templates, library sets, ribbon sets, and more with the members of a Personal Group.
Library Browser
Displays the vault(s), a list of libraries, and documents in the libraries using the Library folder structure as it exists on the Server.

NameIconDescription
FileGuide
Displays documents in your libraries using customized indexing criteria created by an administrator.
Data Card / Search Card
Graphical form created by Admins using the Designer tool containing fields of the metadata stored in the Adept database as well as your custom data fields.
Workflow
The automation of an auditable approval process where documents move through one or more logical steps before being returned to the library.
Inbox
Displays files assigned to you, files checked out by you, and files you may need to review.
Check OUT
Check document OUT of a library for editing. A work-in-progress (WIP) copy of the file is placed in your Active Work Area.Work In Progress (WIP)The state of any document from the point it is Checked OUT until final approval. This can refer to several Versions of copies of the current document.
Check IN
Return a file that is Checked OUT to your work area back to the library (or begin a workflow).
Work Area
Your workspace (personal or shared) that contains your work-in- progress (WIP) files, and any new files awaiting Check In. The work Area is where you perform all edits.
Audit Trail
Tracks the history of almost any command that affects the state of a document.
Favorites
Favorite lists allow a user to organize collections of documents for quick retrieval at a later time. Users may create, edit, and share multiple favorite lists.
Relationships
Documents are often related to each other (ex. Parts in an assembly or image referenced in a drawing). Relationships are extracted automatically or created manually.

NameIconDescription

Document Dashboard

Shows Relationships among Documents. The Document Dashboard displays information such as: Where Used (Parents of the selected file), Children of the selected file, previous Versions of the selected file, Workflow details, Audit Trail information, Configurations of the selected file, internal Drawing Information, Transmittal information, and a Thumbnail of the selected file.
Extraction Fields
Automatically import values from supported documents into the Adept database. (ex: AutoCAD Attribute, Inventor and SOLIDWORKS properties, MicroStation, and Microsoft Office Properties or Bookmarks.)
Plugin
A feature that extends the core capability by providing a specific function. They are optional and are enabled and configured by the Adept administrator. (34)Restricted FieldsFields that allow only certain values to be entered. A drop-down box contains the list of allowed values.
Required FieldsUsers must complete the specified Required Fields in the Data Card before Check In, or Approval is permitted to continue. Requires the Required Fields plugin. Configured by the Adept Admin.
Related FieldsFields that change their available selection lists based on previously selected values. Fields that Auto-Fill based on one selected value. Fields that display additional information about a selection that is not recorded once selected.


Transmittal


Allows you to create, check in, check out, edit, approve, and send Transmittals in PDF format. Includes a report of metadata for the attached documents. Information such as which files were sent, who the Transmittal was sent to, job information, company (Transmittal recipient) and contact information. When Transmittals are sent, Adept fixes relationships between the Transmittal (Parent) and its attachments (Children). Requires the Transmittal plugin to be enabledTask Pane IntegrationA feature that provides access to basic core Adept functionality from within a supported external application (AutoCAD, Inventor, SOLIDWORKS).
Insights
A feature that opens a Web page for searches and filtering of the Adept Audit train and Workflows


FUNDAMENTALS
Adept Users
* Viewer
Ł Read-only users - typically in manufacturing, procurement, sales, marketing, maintenance, external contractors, vendors, and customers


* Reviewer
Ł Everything an Explorer can do plus:
Ł Workflow participation - Approve, Reject, expedite approvals and rejections, and add comments.


* Editor
Ł Everything a Viewer and Reviewer can do plus:
Ł Check In/Check Out - Create and Modify documents.
Ł Transmittal - Create and Send
Ł Requires local install.





Library Group Access Rights
To make it easier to grant rights within Adept, related rights are combined into 4 basic levels. Each level comes with default rights which can be uniquely customized for each Group and Library.

Viewing

User can view, copy, redline, and print documents but has no access to modify or add files.Workflow Managing

User has Viewing and Editing Access Rights as well as rights to manage files in a workflow - approve, reject, assign, unassign, expedite, reroute and more. Editing
User has Viewing Access Rights as well as rights to add, check out, modify, check in, and create files.  Document Managing
User has Viewing, Editing, and Workflow Managing rights plus has rights to delete, move, rename, and update files. Also has rights of Library Administrator.
Administrator Types
* Adept Administrator (full rights)
Ł Configuration
Ł Access and Rights
Ł Users, Groups, Libraries
Ł Workflows
Ł Shared Work Areas
Ł Transmittals Configuration
Ł Templates, Reports
Ł Backups and Maintenance
Ł Liaison between Users and Adept Support
* Workflow Administrator
* Shared Work Area Administrator
* Transmittal Administrator
* Library Administrator


Library Types and Document Version
There are 3 Types of Libraries: Unchecked, Checked, and Open


Unchecked Library



This Library requires that a user Check Out a file before modifying it. Each time the file is Checked In a new version is created. There are no workflows or approvals. The file immediately becomes the Current Approved version in the library.


	

*Note: The first time a file is checked into a library, the Adept version is 0.0.
Major and Minor version numbers change when a document is checked OUT from being IN the library. Minor version collapse to 0 when checked IN to the library.


Checked Library


This Library requires that a user Check Out a file out before modifying it. Each time the file is Checked In, it enters a Workflow and must be approved by one or more users before a new version is saved.





Note: Major and Minor version numbers change when a document is checked OUT from being IN the library. Minor versions also change when you check a document out from being on Hold.


Check OUT/IN Example:

UserActionLibrary Status
(User/Others)Document
VersionNotesChloeCheck Out EditOut/Out1.1Current document version 0.0 is Checked Out of library and copied to Chloe's Work Area for
Editing.ChloeCheck INHold/Review1.1Document enters workflow and
moves to Joe's Inbox for ReviewJoeView
RejectReview/Review1.1Document returns to Chloe for
ReviewChloeCheck Out EditOut/Out1.2Document in Chloe's Work AreaChloeCheck InReview/Review1.2Document in Joe's Inbox for
ReviewJoeViewsReview/Review1.2Joe needs to editJoeCheck Out
EditOut/Out1.3Document in Joe's Work AreaJoeCheck InReview/Review1.3Document to Chloe's Inbox for
ReviewChloeViewReview/Review1.3Chloe needs to editChloeCheck Out
EditOut/Out1.4Document in Chloe's Work AreaChloeCheck InReview/Review1.4Document to Joe's Inbox for
ReviewJoeCheck Out Edit
Check InOut/Out

Review/Review1.5Document to Chloe for reviewChloeCheck Out Edit Check In
ApproveOut/Out

Review/Review Hold/Review1.6Document to JoeJoeApprovesReview/Review1.6Document to AdamAdamReviewReview/Review1.6Views document.AdamApproveIn1.0New Version officially added to Adept Library
End of Workflow

Open Library
Allows users to Open and Edit documents directly from the Vault location on the server. Users are not required to use the Check Out command for editing. This could prevent any type of version control if the user(s) do not Check Out the document before editing. Only used if an application has specific access requirements. Open Libraries can be configured only in Direct Vaults.
Note: Open libraries cannot be in AFS or FTP Vaults; they can only be in Direct Vaults.

Metadata
Each Library has three (3) target areas containing metadata about each document:
* Current Database - The main database that contains the latest, or currently approved documents.
* Version (Revision) Database - The previous versions of a document. Before a document in a Library is replaced by a newer version, the current version is copied to the Version database. Minor versions, if saved, could also be here. You can search a versions database and view and copy a versioned document, but you cannot Check Out the versioned document.
* History Database - Each history is a snapshot of the metadata of a document database record at the time that a document is Checked Out, Checked In or Approved. This also includes editing a Data Card without editing the document. The history depth is set by the Administrator. You cannot perform any operations on the History record.

 Best Practice Tip: Do not save a lot of History unless you are not saving Versions. The more History saved; the more bloat occurs in the database. It is recommended to save no more than 3 levels of history depth.


Document Status
Every database record has an Adept Status. The status appears in all Adept windows to let users know the state of a document. The status text will be in the color shown first. The color in brackets represents the color of the remaining file information displayed in the window.	
In Search Results, Inbox, FileGuide, Library Browser, FavoritesStatus fieldAll Other FieldsDescriptionIn (Black)BlackMost current version - "Latest and greatest"
Out (Magenta)
MagentaChecked out - someone has a copy of the document to edit. Only the person who has the document checked out can Edit
it, all others can view the document.Hold (Red)RedAwaiting Review, but not by you.Review (Blue)MagentaAwaiting Review - in a workflow step for which you are a Reviewer.Assign (Orange)BlackFlags as IN and Assigned to a specified user.AssignHold (Red) AssignReview (Blue)
MagentaFlags as Hold/Review and Assigned to a specified user.Versioned (Blue)GreenAny previous version of a file other than the current one.In your Work Area
New (Blue)
BlackNew document that is not associated with any library and only exists in the
Work Area.
Duplicate (Green)
BlackSame as New and another file of the same name exists somewhere in any
Adept library.Out (Magenta)MagentaChecked Out document that can be edited.
Glyphs



Adept

















IMPLEMENTATION



















Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



Table of Contents
PURPOSE	3
IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS	3
Implementation Planning and Design	3
Prepare For New Install	4
New Installation and configuration	6
SQL Server	6
Adept Native Server	6
Adept Web Server	9
Adept Native Server Configuration	11
Configure to Run as a Service	15
Adept Designer	16
Adept Desktop Client	16
User, Group, library administration (UGLA)	18
Create Vault	18
Create Libraries	18
Users, Groups, Library Access Rights	19
Other Settings and Configurations	19
Configure Initial Settings (Customized Install)	20
ADEPT (ADEPT.INI)	20
EXPORT DATA SOURCE	20
ADEPT CLIENT INSTALLER PACKAGE	20
ENABLE USER ACCESS	22
UPGRADE ADEPT	22
Configure Adept Update	24
CUSTOM PROGRAMS AND EXTENSIONS	25
Backing up Your Data	27
PackageDatabase.exe	27

PURPOSE
This is an overview of the typical steps when implementing Adept. Some topics covered may include:
* Discovery of files and data, design of Adept system
* Pre-installation preparation tasks
* Requirements gathering, installation, configuration updates, upgrades, and maintenance.

For more complete information, refer to the following documents.
* Adept System Requirements
* Adept Installation Guide
* Adept Administration Guide

All documents are available for download on the Customer Portal and are included in the zip file when downloading the installation files.

IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS
* Implementation Planning and Design (IPD)
* Prepare for Install (pre-requisites, backups, accounts, hardware)
* Installation and Configuration
* Client Installation for all Users

Implementation Planning and Design
Prior to implementation, the Synergis Application Consultant (AC) gathers as much information as possible about your environment to better understand the scope of the implementation. This effort allows the project team to be more effective and productive when implementing Adept. For example:
* Goal of the Adept implementation
* Project team member(s) and roles of each
* Evaluate current business processes
* Number of users, and locations
* Administrator training
* IS/IT participation
* Network infrastructure
* Document distribution and workflow requirements
* Database design, Vault options, Data Cards
* Existing databases to import
* Document types, templates and applications used
* Existing file and folder structure
* Evaluate file approval processes
* User access requirements - roles, and access to files
* Data Fields and Types of extracted and manually entered data


* User training
* Type of Authentication - Adept, Active Directory, Single Sign On
* Supporting applications - AutoCAD, SolidWorks, Inventor
* Adept Plugins
* Workstation deployment plan (Manual, AdeptUpdate or 3rd party application)

Prepare For New Install
In Preparation for the Adept Installation, you will need to do the following:
* Access to the Synergis Customer Portal
Go To: https://portal.synergissoftware.com/Login.aspx
If you have already registered, enter your login information and click the Log In button. If not, click the Click here link and fill in the requested information.
Note: You will need your Adept Serial Number to register for a n account.


* Download Current installation files
Log in to the Customer Portal. The installation files for the Adept software versions that have been authorized for your account are shown. Download the installation files for Adept Client and Server and Adept Web Software from the Customer Portal to a folder on the workstation(s) where the Adept software components are to be installed.

If these files are not shown, under the Software heading in the left, select Adept to access the Client and Server installation zip file and select Adept Web Clients to access the Web Software installation zip file.




* Adept System Requirements
Review and adhere to these requirements. The Adept System Requirements document is located in the Docs folder created when unzipping the installation files or can be reviewed at https://www.synergissoftware.com/hubfs/AdeptSystemRequirements.pdf.
* Adept Authorization Codes
This information is sent in an email from Synergis prior to installation. Save the email or information in the email to the server where Adept is to be installed.
* Account with Local Administrator rights on the Server where Adept is to be installed. When installing the Adept Server Components, you will need a Domain User Account and password for the Adept Web Client Application in IIS. The Domain User Account should be a local Administrator with full access to the local machine and the password should never expire. You can use this account or another administrator account logging in on the server to install the Adept Server software.
* SQL Login Credentials
SQL Login should have dbo rights to the Adept Database to create, modify and delete tables in the Adept database. This user should also be able to create a backup and restore a SQL database.
* Perform Windows Updates on Servers where Adept is to be installed prior to starting your installation of Adept.
* Adept Installation Guide
The Adept Installation Guide (AdeptInstallationGuide.pdf) is located in the Doc folder created when unzipping the installation files. Follow the instructions in this document to walk through each step of the installation.


New Installation and configuration
Each of these components should be installed in the order listed. All components can be installed on the same server or on separate servers depending on the number of concurrent users you will have.

An Adept installation includes:
* SQL Server
* Adept Native Server software
* Adept Web Server software
* Adept Viewer Server software
* Adept Native Server Configuration
* Optional
Ł Full Text Search (FTS) - Ability to search for textural contents in a document
Ł Adept File System (AFS)/Replication (preferred) - Similar to FTP plus Replication
Ł FTP Server on the server supporting your Adept Vaults
Ł PublishWave (on a separate server)
Ł SSO Configuration (using OpenID connect)
* Adept Desktop Client software

Each of these components will be installed on the user workstation depending on the type of user license you grant them.
Adept
DesktopAdept Task
PaneAdept
CreatorAdept
ReviewerAdept
ExplorerAdept Desktop??Adept Client Services???Adept Task Pane?Adept Viewer???
SQL Server
The SQL Server is also known referred to as the Database Server. SQL Server stores the Adept database which contains the metadata for each file/document. The metadata can be Windows system data, extracted data, manually entered data, or audit trail data.

If you don't have a SQL Server, install one prior to proceeding with the installation of the other components. See Microsoft SQL Server Installation for Adept in the Adept Installation Guide for more information.

Adept Native Server
The Adept Native Server runs on a Windows application server and facilitates communication between Adept Clients and the SQL Server. This is the business logic server for Adept Desktop Clients.


Check that the following prerequisites are installed prior to beginning the installation of the Adept Server software:
* .NET Framework per the system requirements
* VC++ Redistributable x86 and x64 per the system requirements

When ready to install, close all applications on the server and run the install executable (AdeptNativeServer.exe) as local administrator. The installer proceeds through a series of dialog boxes and processes to:
* Indicate your choice of language
* Check if the required versions of Microsoft .NET Framework and Visual C++ runtime components have already been installed on the server.
If any requirements are missing, the installer will proceed with installing the correct versions. Once all requirements are installed, a welcome screen will be displayed. Note: These components may require a restart.
* Enter the Serialization and Authorization code (provided to you in an email from Synergis)

Note: Authorization code is 80 characters. It is recommended the Authorization code be located on the installation server for you to copy and paste into the dialog box.
* Indicate the Destination folder and select Install
The Destination folder is where the Native server is to be installed (default: C drive). As a result, several directories are created in C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept:
* Adept File System - AFS installation file.
* Client - contains an Install folder that contains files needed to run Adept products and components. This folder includes client and viewer installation
.msi files.
* Server - contains files needed to run the Adept Server.
* Utilities - contains tools and documentation for Administrators (includes templates saved from Designer as DES files and templates for the database.
* WebAPI - contains files needed for web access.


If you choose a drive other than the default C drive, take note of the install location.
* Prompt to create an Adept Share to the Client Folder - Select Yes
The Client folder contains files needed to run products and components
* At the end of the Server installation, check the box to Launch Adept File System Installer if you want to utilize AFS Vaults

Most Adept implementations are using the Adept File System for the vault type. Installing AFS allows for both secure file transfer and replication among one or more satellite locations now or in the future.

Note: See the Adept Installation Guide, Appendix A for information on how to configure AFS Vaults as either a Hub or a Satellite and how to configure Replication. AFS Vaults are also covered later in this training.

Note: See the Adept Installation Guide, Appendix D: Install FTP Vaults for information on how to install FTP Vaults.
* Select Finish. If checked, the AFS installer is launched and checks if all required Windows components are installed on the server and, if needed, will prompt for installation.
Note: if you forgot to check the box before selecting Finish, you can run the AFS Installer from your installation directory. (For example: C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Adept File System)

When the Native Server Software installation is completed, there will be 4 new Adept icons on the server desktop.




When the Adept File System Software installation is completed, there will be 2 new Adept icons on the server desktop.


In the event you are upgrading your Adept from a from an old version (i.e. pre-Adept 2018) of Adept you will have to use Designer to Upgrade the Database to the newer installed version of Adept.

To Upgrade the Database, launch the Designer Tool and select File > Upgrade and follow prompts.
	

Adept Web Server
The Adept Web Server runs within IIS on a Windows server and facilitates communication between Adept Web Clients, Task Pane Users, different Adept Plug Ins and the SQL server. Note: Starting with release 2018, the Web Server is required to be installed even if you are not licensed to use the Web Client.

To install the Web Server, be sure you log into the server where you are installing the Adept Web Server as a Local Administrator or Domain Admin. This account should be added to the local administrator group for this server and should have a password that is set to never expire.

Check that the following prerequisites are installed prior to beginning the installation of the Adept Web Server software:
* IIS Roles
* .NET Framework per the system requirements
* VC++ Redistributable x86 and x64 per the system requirements
* .Net Core per the system requirements



From your download folder, run the Web Server installation executable (AdeptWebServer.exe)
The installer proceeds through a series of dialog boxes and processes to first:
* Check that the name of the server on which you are installing the software does not contain an underscore character '_'. If it does, you will see a message in the Install Wizard indicating:
"Internet Explorer cannot resolve the system name due to an underscore (_) in the name."
You will need to allow users to access Adept using the IP address rather than the computer name. In the Web Client URL, the DNS Server name would be replaced with the IP Address.
* The installation will check that the prerequisites are installed.

If any of the prerequisites are not installed or are not the correct version, they will be displayed in a dialog box and the installer will proceed with installing the correct versions. You may need to reboot the server after installing these components and may need to re-execute Adept WebServe.exe if it doesn't automatically start after all prerequisites are installed.


Note: See the Adept Installation Guide, and the section titled Run the Adept Web Installation, for instructions on installing each of the prerequisites.


After all prerequisites are installed, the Adept Web Server Installation will start.

* The Web Server installer proceeds through dialog boxes to:
Ł Indicate the type of database (ex: Microsoft SQL Server), Database server, authentication info, and the name of the database.
(The connection to the database is verified before continuing to the next dialog).
Ł Specify the location where the Web Server is to be installed.
Note: In Adept 2018.1, the Web Server can only be installed on the C drive.


Adept Native Server Configuration
The Adept Server runs on the network and handles all requests from the Desktop Client. The Client connects through a socket to the Adept Server, and the Adept Server connects to SQL Server. You may need to modify this information if you change the number of seats or move your database

Note: See the Adept Installation Guide, the section titled Native Server Configurations, for complete configuration instructions.


To configure the Adept Server:
* Run the Adept Licensing Tool by selecting the icon on the desktop or from the Start menu. The dialog box allows you to perform a Server Configuration and a Server Serialization.
	

For the Server Serialization, verify the Serial Number, Authorization Code, and
number of Desktop Licenses are accurate.


Dialog PromptDescriptionSerial NumberThe eight-digit serial number is provided in the Authorization email from Synergis Software. Only numbers can be used in this field.
Note: a valid serial number must be entered to activate the
desktop license field.Desktop Client LicensesThe number of Concurrent and/or Named Desktop Licenses your company purchased. This must match the number of Desktop Client licenses provided in an Authorization email
from Synergis Software.Authorization CodeThe 80-character authorization code is provided in an
Authorization email from Synergis Software.Adept Web Client InformationIndicates number of Web Client seats you have for each Adept Web Client type (Explorer, Reviewer, Creator). This automatically displays after entering the correct
information in the Serialization Information section.

Dialog PromptDescriptionReplication - Binary DifferencingAlways Enabled - Binary Differencing is configured in the
Adept File System (AFS) dialogsLicense TypeThe types of licenses your company purchased. This automatically displays after entering the correct
information in the Serialization Information SectionSubscription Expiration DateAdept Licenses have an expiration date, that date will automatically be displayed here after entering the correct information in the Serialization Information section. Adept
will no longer operate after this date unless renewed.
The Server Configuration dialog has 3 sections you must configure:
Ł the connection between the Adept Server Name and the SQL Server
Ł the connection between the Adept Server and the Adept Web Server
Ł the parameters for the database connections

After entering the Server Configuration information, select the Test button in the top section to confirm the connections are successful.


Application Server Local Database InformationServer NameEnter the name of your Database server.DatabaseEnter the name for your SQL Database.Username/PasswordThe same username and password assigned to your SQL
Database.

Database TypeSelect your database engine: Microsoft SQL or Oracle.PortOracle only - enter the port number assigned to your
Oracle database connection.TestSelect this button to check the Database connection. This button also issues an "Apply" that saves the values in the
dialog.Adept Web APIUse Secure
ConnectionThis must be checked if your Adept Web Server is setup
with a security certificate.Hostname & PortEnter the name of the server that the Adept Web Server is installed on and which port is configured for access.
Note: Port can be left blank if SSL is configured.URLThis is automatically filled out when the host name is
entered.Data Connection OptionsConnections on DemandBy default, this will be enabled and connections to the SQL server will be used only when needed (i.e. when searching, opening a FileGuide view). Synergis recommends always
using the Connections on Demand.Connection Pool Start and Max SizeIf you uncheck the Connections on Demand, you can control the number of open connections to the SQL Server. This can consume more connections and RAM than needed and could hinder performance. If you hit the max connections, then any additional searches (or requirements to connect to the SQL server to retrieve metadata information) will be queued.
Using this setting may be required if there is a restriction on
the number of concurrent connections to your SQL server.Temporary File
LocationThis is the location of the Adept Server temp files.Values for Adept Data SourcesProtocolChoose which type of connection that the Adept Desktop
users will connect with - TCP, HTTP or HTTPS.PortPort number the Adept Desktop Client will use to
authenticate with the server. By default the connection type is TCP/IP on port 24000.* Run the Adept Server as an application from the Desktop or the Start Menu to verify that all configurations are correct. At the end of the messages in the Adept Server window, you should see Adept Server Started. This indicates the server is successfully running.
	


If successful, you will see "Adept Server is listening on ...". The Adept Server can then be set to run as a service. This provides better performance to users.

Configure to Run as a Service
With the Adept Server running as a service, Administrators can log off the file server, and the server continues to run in the background. The Adept Server can be started and stopped from the Service Manager without rebooting or from a batch file. If the server is rebooted, the server automatically restarts so users can immediately get back to work.

Steps to Configure (you must be logged in on the server)
1. Stop the Adept Server (AdeptServer.exe)
2. Run the Adept Licensing Tool (AdeptLicensingTool.exe) Select Server Configuration and Configure.


3. Select Adept Service tab
If the Adept Service is not already installed:
Check I understand
Select Install

4. Select the Service manager icon to open the Windows Service Manager window. Double click on the Adept Service
Change the Start Up type to Automatic (Delayed Start).


Click Apply and then Click Start Click OK to close the window


Adept Designer
Prior to deploying Adept to Users, the Adept Designer tool is used to:
* Create a new Adept database
* Create tables in the new database
* Define Database Fields
* Design, create, and edit Data Cards
* Create FileGuide Views
   * Upgrade tables from a previous version of Adept (if needed) Adept Designer is discussed in more detail later in the training.

Adept Desktop Client
Before installing the Adept Desktop Client on all User workstations, the Administrator should install, configure, and test it on one workstation.

Check that the following prerequisites are installed prior to beginning the installation of the Adept Desktop software:
* .NET Framework per the system requirements
* VC++ Redistributable x86 and x64 per the system requirements
* ASP .NET per the system requirements
* MS Visual Studio Tools per the system requirements

To install the desktop client for the first time on the Adept server:
* Run (Adept_Installation_directory /Client/Install/AdeptClientInstaller.msi)


* Configure the Data Source
The Data Source is the connection from the client to the Adept Server.
If connecting to a server on a local network this can be a name or an IP address. If your internet destination has a DNS entry, you can use the internet domain name.
* Log into Adept using the Adept System Administrator credentials. (Login: ADM Password: is blank)
Note: Synergis suggests setting a password for the ADM user.
* Create a Work Area
When first logging into Adept, you are prompted to create a work area at the default path. Optionally, you can create another work area, locally, or on the network.
* First Time User Help Screen - appears the very first time you login to Adept.

* Create your administrator account to do your admin work.
Note: You should not be performing Administrator work as the ADM user for Auditing purposes.
* Export the Data Source configuration to Adept.adc so it can be used later in a utility to install the desktop client and data source configurations on the User workstations.



Troubleshooting Tip: If you get an Adept message when trying to start Adept, check that the Adept Service is Started:

* Create a Work Area (do not set the work area to a Windows temporary directory).
Note: Adept does not support work areas configured on OneDrive locations.
* Test basic operations in the Desktop Client and/or Web Client. For example, peruse the Library Browser, perform a search, view a document, and check out/in a file.

Once the desktop client is working, install the Adept Desktop Client on all necessary user machines.

User, Group, library administration (UGLA)
An overview of Setup and Configuration topics is listed below.
Create Vault
Before Adept will allow the admin to create new libraries or scan windows directories, a vault must be defined and configured. Admins have the option of configuring AFS at this time or configuring the vault for direct access, temporarily. A direct access or FTP vault can be changed AFS at a later time. However, when converting from direct or FTP to AFS, a command called, "Push Adept Date/Time", will need to be executed. Depending on number of files in Adept, this process may take some time.

Create Libraries
Administrators have all rights to access all libraries. When creating libraries, consider the following:
* Library Name
* Location/path where the library is located
* Type of Library
* Version and History depth
* Full Text Search

How to create libraries
* Manually
* Automatically, using the Adept Scan Dir command within Adept which is based on an existing directory structure

How to Add/Import files to Libraries
* Manually
* Automatically using the Synchronize command within Adept


Users, Groups, Library Access Rights
* Import from Active Directory
Ł Users
Ł Groups (will automatically add in AD linked users to the group)
* Many Create as Adept Only
Ł Users
Ł Group
Ł Add Users to manually added Adept Groups
* Assign Groups to Libraries
* Assign Access rights per group per library

Other Settings and Configurations

* Configure Options from the Backstage
Ł Configure and Enable Full Text Search
* Configure or modify Adept Vault
Ł AFS (Hub, Satellites, Replication) or FTP can be configured at a later time
* Add Document, Transmittal, and Report Templates
* Enable and Configure Plugins
* Install and Configure PublishWave
* Adept Integrator
* Custom Programming


Configure Initial Settings (Customized Install)
ADEPT (ADEPT.INI)
C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming\Synergis\Adept
* Options > General tab - During Assign show me who is logged in.
* Options > Workstation tab - all settings.
EXPORT DATA SOURCE
The Data Source tells Adept how to connect to the database.
* Select Backstage > Configure Data Sources...
* Select your Data Source and click Export.

The exported Data Source can be imported on all desktop users workstations.

ADEPT CLIENT INSTALLER PACKAGE
Create an Adept Client Installer package to easily install the Adept Desktop Client, as well as configuration settings, on all User workstations. (See Adept Installation Guide, Load Your Initial Settings Into Adept Client Installer for more information).

To insert the settings into the installer:
* Close Adept
* Run Synergis Adept > ClientInstallConfig.exe from your Windows Programs menu.


This utility can also be found in the Server Installation directory under the Utilities folder: (Ex: C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Utilities\ClientInstallConfig.exe)
* Data Source - imports the Adept.adc

Note: If you are configured for SSL connection you cannot configure the Data Source here, you will need to send an Adept.ADC file to be imported or manually configure Adept on each workstation.
* Adept INI - imports the Adept.ini



* Select File > Options for additional options. Checking AdeptSupport and/or AdeptWork will include the paths set in the Adept.ini. Unchecked, they will default to the local C: drive of each workstation.

* When all settings are imported click Save. Select the AdeptClientInstaller.msi then Open Configuration progress is shown in lower left of dialog.
A message will be displayed when complete.
* In the Adept Web Software folder that was created when you unzipped the installation files downloaded from the Synergis Customer Portal is a folder labeled \Prerequisites\ Copy this folder and all sub folders to the same directory as the AdeptClientInstaller.msi file
(ex: C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Client\Install)
* See the Admin manual for specific installation procedures.

Note: To setup Automatic Updating on user computers, refer to the Adept Installation Guide to learn more about the Adept Update Utility. To use AdeptUpdate on the user workstation, the user must have the ability to run as administrator.

This utility, AdeptUpdateAdmin.exe, can be found in: (install_directory)\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Utilities.


ENABLE USER ACCESS
When all components are installed, configured and verified to be running as expected, enable access to Adept for all users.
* Start the Adept Service as Automatic (Delayed Start)
* Unlock the System in Adept (if Adept is locked)
* Notify Users the system is unlocked and ready for use
* Provide them with information regarding how they will be using Adept

UPGRADE ADEPT
The detailed instructions for performing the update/upgrade are described in the Adept Upgrade.pdf document located in the Docs directory that was created when unzipping the installation files that were downloaded from the Customer Portal.

An Upgrade is the term used when you change from a any version of Adept to a new major version (ex: 2015.x or 2017.x to 2018.x). If you are upgrading from Adept 2017 or older than an upgrade to your database will be required along with installing the new executables.

Adept Upgrade Processes:
* Download and review the Update Notes from the Customer Portal.
This document describes the New Features, Enhancements, Changes, Fixes, Installation information, and other important notes for the new release.
* Download and unzip the installation files and documentation for the new release on the server(s) where you are updating/upgrading Adept:



* Review and comply with the Adept System Requirements document from the Doc
directory created when unzipping the installation files.
* Perform all Window Updates.
* Notify users in advance when the system will be locked.
* Backup your database (a SQL backup just prior to the install is recommended).
* Copy the Serial Number, Authorization Code, and Number of Seats to the Server on which you are updating/upgrading Adept. This is provided to you in an email from Synergis.
* Lock the System from within your current version of Adept.
* Stop all Adept Services.
* Remove Oracle AutoVue (all versions pre-11.0.5).
* Upgrade Adept - Follow instructions in the Adept Upgrade Guide (AdeptUpgrade.pdf) to upgrade and configure the Native Server, Web Server, Client, and any other updates and configurations required for the new release. The AdeptUpgrade.pdf file is located in the Doc directory creating when unzipping the installation files.
Note: Starting with release 2018, the Web Server must be installed even if you are not licensed to use the Web Client
* Run the Designer Tool to Upgrade the Database (if required by the new release): Select File > Upgrade
	

* Start the Adept Server from the desktop icon.


* Review the Adept What's New document to understand new features and changes.
* Test basic operations in the Desktop Client and/or Web Client Ex: Search, view a document, check out/in a document.
* Set Adept Service(s) as Automatic with Delayed Start.
* Unlock the system.
* Update Adept Desktop Clients on User workstations.
* Update Adept Task Pane on User workstations.
* Update the Adept Client Services run as the current user on User workstations.
* Update the Adept viewer on User workstations.
* Notify Users Adept is accessible.

Configure Adept Update
This feature enables automatic workstation updates. Users must be logged in with Local Administrator rights and UAC must be disabled. If users have less than this, Adept updates will need to be pushed by the network administrator using Local Administrator rights.


Start menu > Synergis Adept > Configure Adept Update
When auto-updating is enabled (Enable Adept Update is checked), each client will automatically be updated with the latest version of Adept when they log onto their workstation while connected to your network.
Note: For users who work from home and use VPN, they will be required to manually run the update from the Start menu > Synergis Adept > Adept Update.



Note: Enable Adept Update will become unchecked if you update the server software and must be selected again to enable. This prevents an accidental Client update after a new server version has been installed.
Note: If you have not configured your Client Installer, you will be prompted to configure the Client Install. You can choose to configure it or click No and then confirm that you do not want to configure the Client Install.

CUSTOM PROGRAMS AND EXTENSIONS
In addition to the standard PlugIns, you may be using a custom program or an Add-in (i.e. Outlook to Adept). These programs generally contain 2 or more files: an install file (.msi) and a PlugIn Definition file (.apd). The exact number and any special installation instructions will be included with each program.

The following are general instructions for adding Custom Programs and Extensions if you have Adept Update enabled. Each user will be automatically installed or updated the next time they log into the Domain.
* At the Adept server, copy the .msi and .apd install files to the install folder. By default this will be C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Client\Install. This folder is shared as \\<servername>\AdeptUpdate to make it available to all users.
* Select Configure Adept Update from Start > All Programs > Synergis Adept.
* Check the box to Enable Adept Update.

* Once you have enabled the Adept Update, you can now configure any additional Plugin or Custom Programs to be deployed with the Adept Client Installation.



* Click the + in the PlugIns window and browse to the shared folder and select the
new .msi.
* Save then Exit.
* To delete an entry, select the .msi from the list and click the X in the PlugIns window.
* Click Save then Exit. The program will be automatically removed the next time users log into the Domain.
* If a program has been updated and the name has not changed, replace the file in the shared folder. Then select the entry in the PlugIns window and click the #.
* Click Save then Exit. The program will be automatically updated the next time users log into the Domain.
If users do not have local admin rights, a system administrator will need to log in as a local admin to install or remove programs.


Backing up Your Data
Synergis recommends backing up databases according to your company policy. You must schedule a regular backup using your database backup procedures.
Synergis provides a tool for taking interim backups prior to starting work on the system. This method is provided as a convenience for users with no access to their SQL Server. Performing backups using the SQL database engine is recommended.

Note: There are no requirements to shut Adept down to run a backup with Package Database or using the SQL management tools.

PackageDatabase.exe
Select PackageDatabase.exe in the Utilities folder or select the Package databases icon on the Adept server desktop.


Note: A Package Database or SQL backup does not back up your documents. To back up the documents in your vaults you will use your normal file backup procedure.


Adept









ADEPT BASICS


























Synergis Software


           Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Logging In on Desktop Client	3
Login Options	4
First Time User Help	5
The Main Adept Window	5
Backstage Options	5
Ribbon Tabs	6
Ribbon Set	6
Custom Ribbon Sets	6
Help	7
Shortcut Menus	7
Status Bar	8
Document Dashboard	8
Keyboard Shortcuts	9
Practice/Questions	9
Libraries and Library Sets	10
Adept Libraries	10
Library Types and Symbols	10
Library Sets	10
Create/Edit, and Activate Library Set	11
Practice/Questions	12

PURPOSE
Before learning about the Administrator role, responsibilities, and tasks, we thought it would be helpful for you to first learn how to use Adept. This will give you the foundation to better understand the capabilities of Adept and enable you to better support your users. In this section, you will become familiar with the Adept Desktop Interface. We'll cover logging in, accessing data sources, navigating the Adept window, ribbons, menus, commands, and more.
The Web Client interface will be discussed later in this class.

LOGGING IN ON DESKTOP CLIENT
Select the Synergis Adept icon from the desktop or select Synergis Adept from the Windows Start menu.

Every user has a unique Adept Login ID. The Login Name can be either an Adept username created by your Adept Administrator or, in most cases, is your normal Domain or Active Directory username. For security reasons, you should always have a password for Adept.
You can change your password at any time.

Note: If you forget your password and you are not using your domain username, the Adept administrator can reset your password or can clear the password so you can log in and set a new one.


For each Adept User, the Adept Admin must edit their user profiles and indicate the type of Adept Client the user is able to access. For example, choices are Desktop or one of three Web Clients (Creator, Reviewer, or Explorer). If an Adept Client Type is not set in the user profile or when a there are no more licenses available, the user will get a message and won't be able to log into Adept. Possible messages are:

"Login is not a Desktop User"

"Sorry - the maximum number of licenses are active".


Login Options
Before selecting OK to proceed with the Login, you can select More Options to set the Language, Enable Auto Login, and to change the Data Source. Typically, you will only need to select More Options when you are logging in to Adept for the first time or when you want to change to a different Data Source.


More OptionsLanguageThe language that can be used for localization in the Adept interface.
Language options set up by Administrator. Possible choices: English, German, Spanish, French (Canada), Italian, Portuguese (Brazil)Enable Auto LoginIf your administrator has enabled the Auto Login feature and you check the box to Enable Auto Login, Adept no longer requires you to enter your Login name and password.
Note: You can bypass Auto Login by holding down the shift key when
you double-click the Adept icon on the Windows Desktop.Data SourcesIndicates the Connection between the Adept Client and Adept Server. Can have multiple data sources. (ex: a test server and a production server). To create or manage data sources, Select Configure. You can Add, Edit, Delete, Import or Export Data Sources.
Typically, the Adept Administrator will define the Data Source(s).
Select Fewer Options button in the Adept login window to hide the extra options fields. After entering your Login and Password and selecting options, Select OK to proceed with logging into Adept.

Troubleshooting Tip: If login fails, check that your username and password is correct and check that your Data Sources are defined correctly. If login still fails, contact your Adept Administrator, and inform them of any error messages you receive. These messages will typically indicate the issue with the login - bad username/password, system is locked for maintenance or all licenses are currently in use.


First Time User Help
If this is the first time you are logging in to Adept, the First Time User Help screen will be displayed. To understand how to navigate the Help information, select Search within the Help window, and enter "Using Adept Help". You can close, minimize, or maximize the Adept Help window from the upper right corner of the Help window.


THE MAIN ADEPT WINDOW


Backstage Options
To the left of Home in the Main Tabs, is an oval-shaped button, referred to as the Backstage menu. Within the Backstage dropdown menu, you will find an Options menu where you can access configuration options, configure Data Sources, customize the Ribbon Sets and


Ribbon Tabs, and Search for commands. These features are discussed in detail later in the training.


To Exit Adept, select Exit from the Options Menu which is to the left of the Main Tabs or click the X in the upper right corner of the Adept window.

Ribbon Tabs
Clicking on one of the Adept Ribbon Tabs displays a set of commands pertaining to the Tab you select. The Admin and System Tabs only appear if you are logged into Adept as an Administrator. The most commonly used commands are available under the Home Tab.


Ribbon Set
A Ribbon Set is the collection of Ribbon Tabs and Command buttons. The grouping of commands (ex: Home, Windows, Workflow, etc.) are referred to as command panels.

When you hold your cursor over any command, a Tool Tip indicates the corresponding keyboard shortcut of each button. Command buttons are disabled (grayed out) when an action is not appropriate or you do not have permissions.

To learn why a command is disabled, hold down the Shift key then click on the command that was disabled. A message box explains why the command is disabled.

Custom Ribbon Sets
Custom Ribbon Sets can be created by Users or Adept Admins using the Ribbon Tab Manager and Ribbon Set Manager found in the Backstage Options menu or by right-clicking in the Ribbon Bar. Only one Ribbon Set can be active at any given time. This topic will be discussed in more detail later in the training.



Help
In Adept, you can access the online Help system in several ways:
* Select the Help button in any Adept dialog box. Adept will automatically bring you to the section in the online help pertaining to that specific Adept dialog box.
* Select the Help Tab in the Main Tabs bar to see a Ribbon Set pertaining to various ways you can get help and other information.


From the Help Tab, you can also access other types of helpful information:
* Adept Online - invokes https://synergissoftware.com.
* Contact Us - Provides the Synergis Software address, phone, and web address.
* Plugins - shows a table of information for each of the 32 plugins.
* Command Search - used to find where a command is located within the ribbon tab and allows you to access the command from Ribbon Command Search results dialog box.
* Manuals - to view electronic copies of Adept documentation.
* Adept - indicates the versions of the Server and Client you are running. Selecting the button Credits-Info provides information regarding your login, rights, connections to Adept and more.

Shortcut Menus
Right-click on a document name from a list window or in any area of the screen. The most relevant commands will appear on the shortcut menu for the current cursor location.

"When in doubt, right-click"


Status Bar
The main status bar at the bottom of your Adept window provides information about your current Adept session.

The top line allows you to quickly select a type of window to display. This is the same order as is shown in the Windows ribbon set in the Home ribbon toolbar.


The second line provides additional information about your current Adept session.
* Information Source (Library or WIP) - This setting affects the information displayed in your window columns and on the Data Card. When viewing documents, the Viewer will display the document specified by this setting (from the Library/ Approved Version or from the Work In Progress).
* Current Work Area - The name of your currently selected Work Area will be displayed here. Left click to select a different default Work Area for Check Out and Copy commands.
* Active Library Set - If you have created any custom Library Sets, the name of your currently selected Library Set will be displayed here. Left click to select a different Library Set.
* All Ribbon Tabs Shown - If you have created any custom Ribbon Sets, the name of your currently selected Ribbon Set will be displayed here. Left click to select a different Ribbon Set.

The right-most area of the Status Bar provides information about the current active window. This area also displays the login name of the current user.


Document Dashboard
The Document Dashboard shows relationships among documents and is accessible from either a tab beneath the Status Bar or from the Home or View tab.



By default, this window will Auto Hide when not being used. To keep window open, click on the push pin in upper right corner of the dashboard window.


The right pane of the Document Dashboard displays information about the file selected in the left pane. The type of information is determined by which tab is selected at the bottom of the dashboard window.

The first 4 tabs (no color) are an indication you can modify the columns of information being displayed for that tab. For example, you can add or remove columns.

Keyboard Shortcuts
Adept uses typical Windows keyboard conventions. You can execute many Adept commands from the keyboard. In addition, special characters are designated to be used when searching and to perform actions. To see a full list of Keyboard actions and shortcuts, see the Adept Online Help and search for the Topic: Keyboard

Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 1, which is included alongside this document.


LIBRARIES AND LIBRARY SETS
Adept Libraries
Adept Libraries are containers for your documents and are located within the Vault. You will only have access to search libraries and view documents for which you have been granted at least View rights. To see the libraries and documents in the libraries that you have access to, select the Library Browser command button from the Home tab:


Libraries are listed on the left and documents are listed on the right.


Library Types and Symbols
	

Library Sets
Library Sets act as a filter when browsing, viewing, and searching for documents. The search results will only display those documents found in the libraries specified within the active library set. Selecting a Library Set affects:
* Search Card - contains fields for Active Libraries
* Checking In - only active Libraries appear on the Destination Library list
* FileGuide Views - only displays files and information included in the active Library Set

 Best Practice Tip: Enable Library Sets when you have a large number of documents and libraries or when your current tasks focus on a specific library and documents. This will result in more efficient and quick search results and when using the FileGuide. Only those libraries in the library set will be searched.


Create/Edit, and Activate Library Set
To create a new library set or edit an existing library set, select the Create/Edit command button from the Edit tab, Library Sets ribbon.


In the Library Browser dialog, select New. Enter a name for the new library set and select OK. The new library set name appears on the Library Set dropdown.


To add libraries to the set, drag and drop a library, one at a time, from the left pane of the Library Browser dialog to the right pane. To add multiple libraries at a time, select the libraries from the left pane, then select the Add button.

To remove libraries from the set, select the libraries in the right pane and select Remove. Select the Activate button when you are ready to use the library set you just created. The Active Library Set is displayed with a yellow background color and, is also shown in the Status Bar.

You can also create a new library set, edit an existing library set, or activate a library set by selecting Active Library Set on the Status Bar.



To change the Active Library, select the Change Active command from the Edit Tab, Library Sets Ribbon or by clicking on the Active Library Set shown in the Status Bar. Then select the library set to be activated.


To change a library set, select the Create/Edit button from the Edit Tab, Library Set ribbon. Proceed to add or remove libraries from the library set.

Other options are available to Save As, Rename, and Delete Set.

Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 2, which is included alongside this document.


Adept













SEARCH























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Data Card	3
Custom Data Card Tabs	3
Memo	4
Thumbnail	4
Practice/Questions	4
Searching	5
Search Card	5
Special Searches	7
Special Characters	7
Search Results Window	8
Append To or Refine Searches	9
Clear Search Entries	10
Practice/Questions	Error! Bookmark not defined.
Search All Fields	11
Full Text Search (FTS)	12
Quick Search	13
Adept Search Matrix	14
Customize Columns	14
Column Sets	16
Create a Column Set	16
Use a Column Set	16
Edit/Manage Column Set	17
Practice/Questions	18
Save Searches	18
Favorites	19
Favorites Window	20
Adding Documents to Existing Favorites	22
Remove documents from a Favorite	22
Managing Favorites	23
Folders for Favorites and Saved Searches	23
Practice/Questions	24
FileGuide Window	24
Default System-Defined View	24
User-Defined View	26
Search Extended	26
Search Ribbon	27
Glyphs for Parent/Children	28
Document Dashboard	28
Practice/Questions	34

PURPOSE
Adept stores the metadata about each of your files that are stored within Adept Libraries and the Adept Work Area. As a result, you can search and quickly find documents. Depending on your rights, you can view, copy, print, check in/out, markup, edit, send documents, and more. This Section covers how to:
* View Data Cards
* Search for documents
* Customize Columns
* Save Favorites and Save Searches

DATA CARD
The Data Card is a graphical form that displays data for each of your documents. You can think of the Data Card as your window into the database. The Data Card contains system fields for metadata and custom fields from your document. This form is also used to search for documents. There are several ways to open and view a Data Card.


Note: To open a data card by double-clicking on a document, set the action for double-click in the Adept Options, General settings

Custom Data Card Tabs
There can be up to 8 different data cards and each data card can have up to 8 pages of custom information plus a page for a memo field and a page for a thumbnail. Use the pulldown menu at the top of the Data Card dialog to access the Data Cards available to you. Each page of the Data Card is accessed by clicking the tab.



Once the data card is displayed you can click the up and down arrows at the top of the card to navigate to the previous or next document in the list you are currently viewing.


Memo
The memo tab supports Rich Text Formatting and inserting of Images. Since adding images will increase the size of the database, the Administrator can limit the data size between 1Mb and 4Mb.


Thumbnail
The Thumbnail tab displays available thumbnails from Autodesk, SolidWorks and Inventor documents, Previews from Word and Excel and a few other image formats.


PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 3, which is included alongside this document.


SEARCHING
In Adept, there are several ways to search for documents:
* Search Card
* Search All Fields
* Full Text Search
* Quick Search
* Saved Searches, Favorites, Last Search
* Library Browser
* File Guides
* Other - Audit Trail, Transmittal, Children/Parents, Unresolved Children, Duplicate Document Names, Versions, History, and more

Search Card
Adept allows you to search on any information you know about a document, independent of where the document is located on your network. The results of a search depends on the criteria entered in the fields on the Search Card and are displayed in the Search Results window.

Select the Search Card command button.

Notice the Search Card contains the same fields as are on the Data Cards.



To search for documents:
* Select the Data Card that contains the fields you want to search (ex: Engineering, Plant, etc.)
* Select the Target Database in which you want to search. (most searches will use the Current Database)
Current Database - the main Database
Ł Contains a record for each item tracked by Adept.
Ł Each record contains system information (metadata) about the document.
Ł each record contains custom fields of information for each document (Custom fields are created by the Adept Administrator).
History Database
Ł Contains a snapshot of the database record for documents at the time a document is checked out, checked in, or approved.
Ł History records do not maintain links to their associated documents.
Ł Cannot check out or perform any other document operation on the associated documents; use the Audit Trail feature for a more complete record of the commands that have been issued in Adept.
Note: Adept Saves History to the depth set by the Administrator in the Library Profile.
Version Database
Ł Contains previous versions of documents.
Ł Adept saves a snapshot of the document and the Data Card information for the document.
Ł The document cannot be check out or checked in. However, it can be viewed or copied.
* To search SOLIDWORKS Configurations and AutoCAD Layouts in addition to the Target Database, check the box for Search Extended
* Enter your search criteria into the field(s) on the Search Card (ex: erosion).
Notice as you enter the criteria, it is listed in the box at the bottom of the Search Card in the Search Criteria section.
* Click the New Search button  located in the upper left of the Search Card.
* The results of the search display in the Search Results window.
Note: This will only return documents for which the user has rights and are located in the libraries in your active library set.

Some documents contain "extended data." Extended data is the Adept method for storing metadata for SOLIDWORKS Configurations and AutoCAD Layouts. When you check this box, Adept will search both the target database as well as extended, and will return to the Search Results any documents that contain the desired criteria in any of the Extended Data. The metadata value that will be displayed in the Search Results window will be the value that was first resolved in the document. To see all the values of the documents found by this search, use the Document Dashboard Extended tab. This tab will be labeled either Configurations or Layouts, depending on which type of document you have selected.


Special Searches
Within the Search Card, right-click in the gray area and select Special Searches to access additional ways to search based on special characteristics of documents.


Special Characters
When entering search criteria into the fields, special characters can be used to modify the search. To see a list of special characters that can be used, right-click in the gray area of the Search Card and select Show Search Key.



Use a wildcard to find all documents with a Filename containing "piping"


Other Examples:

EnterResults
+Returns all records for which this field is not empty
Ex: Enter "+" (without quotes) in the Building Name field to return all documents where Filename is not empty*floorReturns all records with a Filename that contains the string "floor"
Susp*ForkReturns all records with a Filename that contains a phrase that begins with Susp and contains Fork, regardless what's in between or what is
aftersi?eThe ? replaces a single character. The results for the search would
include the filenames that include side, site, silent etc.b??tUse the ? multiple times. The results for the search would include
filenames that include Best, bolt, belt, boatSearch Results Window
After performing a search based on the specified criteria, the Search Results window automatically appears and shows the results of your search. The search results for the most recent search in the current Adept session can be viewed at any time by selecting the Results command button.





The left pane of the Search Results window lists the searches performed in this Adept session. Each search is organized by the date and time of the search with the newest results at the top. Each search leaf retains the search criteria for that search. Clicking any leaf will execute that search again.

Append To or Refine Searches
It is possible that your original search did not result in everything you are looking for. You can modify your previous search results by appending to a previous search or searching only within the previous search results.

To Append additional documents to a previous search result:
* Enter Search criteria
*  Append to Previous Search
This searches all documents for the new search criteria and adds the results to the previous search results. For example, open the Search Card and enter new criteria (ex: overwrite
*piping with erosion). Then select  .



The Search Results show both the erosion file and the piping files:


To Refine (or search within) the previous search results:
* Enter Search criteria (may need to clear previous search criteria)
*  Search within Previous Search
This searches through only the documents listed in the previous search results and displays the results in the Search Results window.

For example, to look for the files that do not have a status of IN (meaning not checked Into the library), open the Search Card and click on  one time to clear the criteria on the search card (or manual clear with Backspace or Delete). Then enter the search criteria and select  (Search within Previous Search).

Note: Filename was cleared

The Search Results shows only one file that has a status of Assign.


Clear Search Entries
The Clear Search Entries button  discards all search criteria in the current Search Card when clicked one time but does not change the Search Results window. Click on the Clear Search Entries twice to clear the previous steps of a multistep search.


Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 4, which is included alongside this document.

Search All Fields
This method of searching is helpful if you do not know what field to search or just want to search all fields in the Data Card.
* Open the Search Card
* Enter the string you are searching for into the Search all fields box

This searches for the string in all fields on any tab of the selected Data Card. Special characters can be used in this field. Fields of type Logical, Numeric or Date are ignored.


The Search Results window displays all files that have a field containing the string piping:
Note: after a Search All Fields, you cannot then append or refine that search


View the Data Card for 1002.dwg to see the Field that contains the string "piping".


Full Text Search (FTS)
The Full Text Search feature is used to search through the textual contents of documents.
* The data must be stored in the document as text.
* Only libraries which have Full Text Search enabled can be searched.
The Adept Administrator sets the Option to enable Full Text Search for a library and defines the extensions of the documents that are to be included or excluded from the full text search.

FTS cannot find text in a:
* raster image (scanned document or fax that has not been OCR'd).
* password protected document.
* DWG file that was generated with a shape font and then converted to pdf.

Valid search criteria include:
* Single word
* Multiple words
* Words and phrases in double quotes (assumes an AND operation)
* Word with a ? symbol (performs a single character wildcard search)
* Word with an * symbol (performs a multiple character wildcard search)
* Word ending with ~ symbol (fuzzy search - similar term)
* Words included with Boolean Operators (AND, +, OR, |, NOT, !)

To execute a Full Text Search:
* Open Search Card
* Select Full Text Search from the dropdown list
* Enter the text to search for



	


Quick Search
Quick search is a single-field search function located at the top of the Search Results
window. Adept will search across the entire database and the results replace your current
<last search>.

* In the Quick Search for box, enter one or more characters contained in the file you are searching for. Special characters and Search Key special characters can be used in this field.
* Select a specific Field to be searched from the in field dropdown box or select Search All Columns in Window (bottom of list) to search all fields.

If you do not see a specific field you are looking for in the dropdown list, select
<Show More Fields...> to see a complete list of all available fields.
* Click Search
Note: If a user is restricted to a Search Card, only the fields on that card will appear on the in field: list.


ADEPT SEARCH MATRIX
The results of the different types of searches are stored differently by Adept. Therefore, the ability to Append to Previous Search (Append) and Search within Previous Search (Refine), depends on what type of search was performed. Many users tend to use the Search All Fields and then Search within Previous Search (Refine). The following table shows which subsequent searches are possible and which are not possible given the initial search in the leftmost column:

Initial SearchAppend using Full Text
SearchAppend using Search All FieldsAppend using Data CardRefine using Full Text SearchRefine using Search All FieldsRefine using Data CardFull Text
SearchNoNoNoNoNoYesSearch All
FieldsNoNoYesNoYesYesData CardNoNoYesNoNoYesQuick
SearchNoNoYesNoNoYes
CUSTOMIZE COLUMNS
The default field columns displayed in Adept windows are: Filename, Status, Library Name, and Owner. You or the Adept Administrator can modify the columns that are displayed. Columns can be removed, added, changed, sorted, and resized. The modified columns can be saved as a Column Set and Shared with other users. Two columns cannot be removed and must remain in every window, Filename, and Status.

Adjust Column widths. Use Windows procedures to drag the left or right border of a column or right-click on any column heading and select AutoSize This Column or AutoSize All Columns.



Sort a column. Columns can be sorted alphabetically in ascending order by left-click one time on the column header. The sorted column will be shaded. Left-click a second time to sort in descending order.


Re-order columns. Simply select the column and Drag and Drop the column(s) as desired.

Add, Remove, or Change a column. Right-click on a column heading to select the action. The maximum number of columns that can be displayed is 24.


When Adding or Changing a column, a list of the columns to choose from is displayed. Notice there are two Field Types: System and Custom. Custom fields are listed first in alphabetical order and are followed by System fields, also listed alphabetically. To quickly
find the column you are looking for, enter the first few letters in the Filter Display Name until you see the column you are looking for.


The new column will be inserted to the left of the selected column. When changing a column, the selected column is replaced with the new column of data.

Note: If a user is restricted to a Data Card, only the fields on that card will be available on the Add or Change column list.

Column Sets
Column sets allow you to save, edit/update, share, and use your favorite column arrangements. You can save many column sets.

Column sets are useful when generating a report with specific information or when working with metadata associated with different document types. You may want a different column set for each of your Adept windows.

Create a Column Set
* Customize the columns for the desired appearance
* Right-click on any column heading
* Select Column Sets > Save

* Enter a name that describes the column set you just created and select OK


Use a Column Set
* Right-click on any column heading
* Then select Column Sets > Use



* Select the named Column Set to be used. Check the box to Apply to all windows if the column set is to be used for all list windows.

Note: Select <default column set> to restore the column settings to the default Adept column set.

Edit/Manage Column Set
* Right-click on any column heading
* Select Column Sets > Edit
* Choose a Column Set from the list
* Share, Update, Rename, or Remove the chosen Column Set



Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 5, which is included alongside this document.

SAVE SEARCHES
If you perform frequent or complex searches, save the searches to your Favorites. When a Saved Search is run, Adept performs a search for all documents that match the saved search criteria are displayed. Over time, the result of a saved search may change as more or less files match the search criteria each time the search is executed. You can modify, copy, delete, rename and share (if you have the rights) a Saved Search.

To Save a Search to your Favorites:
* Perform a new Search using any method
* Right-click in the right pane of the Search Results window and select Save Search As...
Or select a previous Search from the left pane of the Search Results window. Then right-click in the left pane of the Search Results window and select Save As...

* For either method, enter a Search Name. A comment is optional. Select OK.
The named Saved Search is listed in the Favorites window.



FAVORITES
In addition to Saved Searches, you can Save Favorites. A Favorite can include one or more specific documents. Favorite lists are static lists. When selecting a Favorite, the list of documents displayed is the same every time it is run unless documents in the Favorite were manually added or removed prior to re-running the Favorite. When selecting a Favorite, the most current version of the Favorite documents are displayed. You can modify, copy, delete, rename, and share (if you have rights) Saved Favorites.

To save a Favorite:
* Select one or more documents
Right-click on the selected document(s) and select Favorites > New Favorite List ...
Or select the Edit tab and select New List.
	
* Enter a name for the Favorite list. A Comment is optional. Select OK.
* The new Favorite list then appears in the Favorites window.


Favorites Window
The Favorites window lists your Last Search, Saved Searches, and Favorite lists that you have created/own. The Favorites window also lists the saved searches and favorites lists that are shared with you.
		

A list of Saved Searches and Saved Favorites appear in the left pane of the Favorites window. Re-run a Saved Search or access a Favorite by simply left-clicking on the name of the Search or Favorite. The results are shown in the right pane of the Favorites window.


Favorites window glyphs:

At the top of the list in the left pane of the Favorites window is <Last Search>. This is a temporary Saved Search that is created when you run a search. Each subsequent search replaces the temporary search with the most recent search. The <Last Search> can be saved as a Favorite or as a Saved Search.
* Select <Last Search> in the left pane of the Favorites window, then right-click and select either Save As or Favorites > New Favorites List

* Enter a name for your new Favorites list and select OK.



Note: Unchecking the box in the lower left corner of the New List dialog box, creates a new empty Favorites list


Adding Documents to Existing Favorites


There are several ways to add documents to an existing Favorite. First, from any window, select one or more documents to add to an existing Favorites list. Then do one of the following:
* Right-click on the selected document(s) and select Favorites > Add to Favorites List and pick the Favorite list you want to add the documents to
* From the Edit tab in the Ribbon, select the Add To button, then select the list you want to add the documents to.


Another way to add documents to an Existing Favorite is to Drag and Drop the document(s) to the saved Favorite.
* Search for the document(s) to be added.
* Open the Favorites from the Ribbon or Status Bar.
* Select <Last Search> from the left pane to view the results of the search in the right pane.
* Use the left mouse to Drag and Drop the document(s) from the right pane to the saved Favorite in the left pane you want to add the documents to.
* 
Remove documents from a Favorite:
* Open the Favorites window.
* Select the saved Favorite you want to change.


* In the right pane, right-click on the document you want to remove from the saved Favorite.

* To clear all documents from the selected Favorite, select Clear Favorite List

Managing Favorites
To Delete, Rename, Copy contents of a Favorite, Share, or Save to another name, Right- click on the Favorite in the left pane of the Favorites and choose the command.
	
You can also select the Edit tab in the Ribbon to Clear, Rename, or Delete a Favorite list.

Folders for Favorites and Saved Searches
To better manage and organize your Favorites and Saved Searches, you can Create, Rename, and Delete folders and subfolders. To create folders and subfolders, right-click in the left pane of the Favorites window and select Create Folder. Enter a Folder Name.
	

The folder name is limited to 128 characters and automatically converts special characters to an underscore. Once folders are created, drag and drop existing Favorites and Saved Searches to the folders. When deleting a folder, the contents of the folder is promoted to the next level in the tree.


Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 6, which is included alongside this document.

FILEGUIDE WINDOW
The FileGuide window contains a menu of FileGuide Views that allow you to browse for documents in your libraries based on customized indexing criteria using fields in your database.

Note: In the FileGuide window, right-click in the left pane to set Options.

Default System-Defined View
There are two default System-Defined FileGuide View:
Ł Vault, Library Name and Extension
Ł Vault, Library Folder and Extension





User-Defined View
Up to 32 user defined FileGuide Views, organized like an outline, can be created by your Administrator using Adept Designer.



SEARCH EXTENDED
Adept stores metadata for SolidWorks Configurations and AutoCAD Layouts as Extended Data. To perform a search in both the Current Database and the Extended Data:
* Open the Search Card
* Check box for Search Extended

* Enter Search criteria and select the Search button.
The Search Results will show all files that contain the specified criteria in the Current Database and in any of the Extended Data.
* Select a file in the Search Results window and Open the Document Dashboard. Then select the Extended tab.


Depending on the type of file selected, the Extended tab label shows either Extended, SOLIDWORKS Configurations, AutoCAD Layouts, or Inventor iFactory Members.


SEARCH RIBBON
The Search tab provides commands to several types of Searches:

* For Children: To locate children of an Assembly or any number of parent documents, select the parent document(s), then select the For Children command from the Search Ribbon.













Additional Options:
Include Parents - This option is intended to help you find drawings associated with a part. When checked, Search Results will also display one generation of parents for the children that were found. Can include the parents with the specific file extension(s).


Exclude files in filtered libraries - When checked, the Search Results will not show any children that are located in libraries in which the Adept Admin has enabled the option to Allow Filtering of Children.

* For Transmittal: Search for transmittals that match specific criteria (ex: Company, Project, Engineer, etc.)
* Failed Extraction: Search for document(s) where Adept was unable to extract data from a document. The extraction status would be "In Progress".
* Relationships: (requires Relationship Search Plugin is enabled) Search through all generations of relationships for either all the children of a document or all of its parents that meets the criteria you specify.
* Versions within Current Documents: Search for versions of a selected document
* Duplicates within Current Documents: Search libraries in Vaults or system-wide for duplicate documents. This is typically used when an option to force unique document names is not set by the Adept Administrator.
Note: there are several ways to access these features. See online help.

GLYPHS FOR PARENT/CHILDREN

DOCUMENT DASHBOARD
When you select any document in the FileGuide, Search Results or Work Area window, any relationships to other documents will be displayed in the Document Dashboard.
	


The Document Dashboard can be pinned open by selecting the push pin in the upper right corner of the Dashboard.


The left pane of the Document Dashboard displays a tree view. The right pane displays information about the selected document based on the tab selected in the Document Dashboard.

Where Used - Displays where this file is used (by which parents)


Children - Displays what files are children of this file and the version level of each


Version - Displays Adept's version history for the selected file



WIP: Versions - Displays intermediate or minor versions of selected file


Mobile Markup - Lists the files copied to your PDA with Mobile Markup


Workflow - Displays details of the document's progress through a Workflow


Audit Trail - Displays a summary of all user commands that affected the state of this file.


To filter what is displayed, right-click in right pane:



Note: Click Help then the Audit Trail Options link for a list of commands included in each Audit Trail option.
Extended Data - AutoCAD Layouts


Extended Data - Inventor IDW Sheets


Extended Data - Inventor IPT & IAM Members


Extended Data - SOLIDWORKS SLDPRT & SLDASM Configurations




Extended Data - SOLIDWORKS SLDDRW Sheets



Drawing Info - Displays attachment type, block name and last saved path of children


Transmittal Tab - Display transmittal contact data and field data


Thumbnail - Displays a thumbnail of supported files.


Notes:
* You can print the list information by right-clicking in the right pane and selecting Print List.
* You can add columns to display additional information in all tabs except Workflow, Audit Trail, Drawing Info, Transmittal, and Thumbnail


Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 7, which is included alongside this document.


Adept













VIEW & PRINT























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



Table of Contents
PURPOSE	3
VIEW DOCUMENTS	3
Viewer Features	5
Find Text	6
Markups	7
Measure	8
Compare	10
ALTERNATE VIEWER*optional	16
Practice/Questions	17
PRINT FILES	18
PRINT DOCUMENT DIALOG SETTINGS	19
Print Options	19
Watermarks	19
Print Order	20
PRINT USING PUBLISHWAVE*optional	20
Practice/Questions	20

PURPOSE
Now that you can search for documents, view the Data Card, Save Searches and Favorites, and modify the output column layout, this section covers how to:
* View Documents
* Markup documents
* Compare 2D and 3D documents
* Measure Point to Point
* Print a document
* Publish to PDF
* Send a document
* Export to a file
* Assign File

VIEW DOCUMENTS
Each license of Adept includes the Adept Viewer which uses the built-in Synergis Adept Viewer visualization and markup software.

The Adept Viewer allows all Adept users with library access to view many document types without requiring the native application. With additional access rights, you can:
* markup documents
* print or convert certain documents of various formats to pdf
* save Views of Document
Note: Saved Views retain the current displayed model characteristics (orientation, sectioning, exploding, opacity, color, handle manipulations) that can be applied to the model with the Viewer. A Saved View persists with the document, being automatically saved when the document is closed and is available for all other users viewing the document using the Adept Viewer.
The features available to you are determined by your Adept Administrator through:
* View Library Access Rights
* Markup Library Access Rights
   * Print Library Access Rights You can view documents from:
* The Library - (current Database) when the document has a Status of IN or Hold/Review (depending on workflow rights)
* The Version Database - Previous Versions of any document are available to view and compare to the current Version.
* Your Work Area when you have a document Checked Out or on Hold after Check In Note: when you have a document checked out to your work area, use the native application to view the document.

If the Information Source in the Status Bar is set to WIP, the Viewer automatically opens the most recent Work In Progress version of the document (if one exists). Additional minor versions of a document can be accessed from the Document Dashboard WIP Versions tab. If a


document is OUT or on HOLD to another user, Adept indicates the document(s) are not available.

To View the selected document(s) using the Adept Viewer:
* Select the document(s) to view from any Adept window (Search Results, Library Browser, Favorites, FileGuide, Inbox, Work Area)
* Select View Document from the Ribbon or right-click on the file to select View.


* (Optional) Double-click on the selected document(s). By default, double-click on a document opens the Data Card.
To change the behavior of the double-click action to automatically View the selected document, go to Backstage > Options > General options. In the dialog box, change the Double-click action from Display Data Card to View Document.

The Adept Viewer displays the selected document(s). Documents you have viewed in the Viewer remain loaded until you close them ("X" in the right edge of document tab).



Viewer Features
Within the Adept Viewer, you can:
* zoom in/out
* find text
* create and modify markups and notes
* publish to PDF
* publish to PDF with watermarks (Admins set watermarks in Options > Print Label)
* Print Documents
* compare documents or versions of documents
* measure distance

The Viewer Manual is included in the installation package. It can also be downloaded or printed from within Adept:
* Select the Help Tab
* On the Documentation Ribbon, Manuals menu, select Viewer Manual

Note: A document cannot be edited or altered in the Viewer.


Document panel
* Option to Autosort - check this option to sort the documents. When documents are selected to open/view in the Viewer display area, the thumbnails for those documents jump to the top of the list in the document panel. The list of thumbnails is then sorted alphabetically first by documents that were opened/viewed in the display area followed by documents that have not yet been opened/viewed in the Viewer display area.




* Ability to manually sort - When the Autosort option is not checked, use the left mouse button on thumbnail to drag and drop the thumbnails into the preferred order





Find Text
In the document, select Content Panel. After entering criteria and selecting Find Next, the Viewer zooms in and highlights the Results.


Markups
To create or edit Markups, you must have markup rights.
* Select the New Markup button. Notice a markup panel, with several command buttons appear on the left side of the viewer window.
* Use these commands on the toolbar to create the desired markups.
* Once you are complete Save your Markups using the icon in the ribbon.

Markups are stored in the Adept database and NOT in the document. If you want markups to be displayed every time you open the document in the Viewer, set the Adept Workstation Option Automatically enter markup mode when viewing documents.

To control the display in the comparison view, select an option from the View menu:



Measure
The Measure feature is located within the Markup Mode.
* Select the Markup button. Notice a markup panel, with several command buttons appear on the left side of the viewer window and the Measure button becomes enabled.
* The measure command has three options:
 

Measure Point To Point
* Select the Measure Point to Point, after you select two points within your drawing, you will be prompted to confirm you wish to add in the measurement.



* You may see up to three points of information:
Red: shows the distance between the two points on the X axis. Green: shows the distance between the two points on the Y axis. White: shows the actual distance between the two points.

Measure List
* Select the Measure list option. This will display all the created and saved measurements within the drawing.
* You can change the units for measurement.
* You can delete a single or multiple measurement.



	

Note: The Calibrated column only appears in the Measure List when adding a measurement to a PDF file. If a Measure is done on any other type of document, the Calibrated column does not appear in the Measure List.
Note: To view Measure Markups, you must have Markup Mode enabled.

* To save your measurements, click on the Save button on the Ribbon.

Compare
To Compare two drawings, you must have both drawings open in the Adept Viewer.
Note: Currently only 2D compare is supported.


* Select the two files you wish to compare in the Document Panel


* If your drawings use color, it's recommended to first change the document view to Monochrome.


* Right click on the drawing and choose Compare
* By default, the comparison result will show with the comparison at the bottom of the screen. You can change this view by clicking on the different view options on the left toolbar.


The red color represents information from the original file, while the green color represents the file being used for comparison with the original file.


* You can choose to drag and drop each of the open views to another location if you wish to change which document view is in which quadrant.


* To Exit Compare Mode click on the X to close Comparison Result window.

Print from the Viewer
1. Select the Printer button to display a list of all documents in the Viewer Document Panel.

2. In the Print dialog, left-click the checkbox to select the document(s) you want to print. Left-click the top box to select all documents. Select the Print button. The status appears as Converting.
	


3. When the documents completed converting, another Print dialog appears. Choose the desired printer settings and select Print.


Publish To
The Publish PDF command is used to produce a copy of a document in PDF format. To Publish documents to PDF format within the Adept Viewer:
1. Select the document(s) to be published to PDF in Adept
2. Select the View button from the Home tab ribbon
3. In the Adept Viewer window, select the Publish PDF icon from the Viewer title bar when a single document is viewed or from the active display window in the viewer when more than one document is displayed simultaneously. A Publish PDF dialog box appears





ALTERNATE VIEWER*optional
The Alternate Viewer Plugin allows users to configure Adept to:
* automatically use an application other than Adept Viewer to view documents
* prompt to use either the Adept Viewer or a different application to view documents

To use this feature, the Adept Administrator must first install and enable the Alternate Viewer Plugin. The native application intended to be used as the alternate viewer must also be installed on the user's computer.

Note: if possible, the native application should be installed at the same location (ex: C:/) on each user's computer. This helps the users export/import the alternate viewer settings in the future.

Each Adept User can then configure the Alternate Viewer for their own use:
* Select the Tools tab and the Plugin Workstation command.
* Select Alternate Viewer


 
* Select Add. A new row is added to the list.

* Enter the File Extension
* Browse to select the viewer executable file (ex: C:/Program Files/Adobe/.... ) The viewer name will be filled in automatically
* Set the preferred behavior
Enabled - when checked, Adept is able to use the Alternate Viewer in the mode indicated by the Viewer Prompt option. If unchecked, the Alternate Viewer is not available and the Adept Viewer is always used.
Viewer Prompt - when checked, Adept will prompt if you want to use the Adept Viewer or the Alternate Viewer when you initiate the View Document command. If unchecked, the Alternate Viewer is always used.
Import/Export - Export settings to AdeptAlternateViewerSettings.xml to share with other users. Alternate Viewer Settings can then be Imported by another user.
Note: Markups created in Adept Viewer cannot be seen when using an alternate viewer.
* Select Save and Close

Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 8, which is included alongside this document.


PRINT FILES
After selecting one or more files from any Adept window, there are several ways to print the selected document:
* Select the Document tab in the Ribbon and select the Using Viewer command button. This uses the Viewer to render and print the document or save it to pdf.
* View a file in the Adept Viewer, then select File > Print from within the Viewer
* Right-click on the files in an Adept window and select Print File(s).... This Print command uses the Adept Viewer to open and print the file(s).

If the status of the file is Hold or Review, the Information Source setting determines which version is printed (Work In Progress or Library). To change the Information Source setting (prior to invoking the Print command), in the View Ribbon tab, select the appropriate Information Source or in the Status Bar, select Information Source:

If the Workstation option " Automatically enter markup mode when viewing documents " is checked, the markup version will be printed.


PRINT DOCUMENT DIALOG SETTINGS
Any settings you make in this Print Document dialog window applies to any document you print from Adept or print directly from the Viewer.


Print Options
Select the Setup button to choose and configure the printers you will use when printing documents. When Watermarks are enabled, the watermarks also appear in the Viewer.

Watermarks
Watermarks, also known as Print Labels, are set by the Adept Administrator and can only be changed by them.
The Watermark printed on a document depends on:
* Document Status - In, Out, New, Hold, Review etc.
* Existence of Work In Progress
* Promotion Option
Ł Watermarks Reflect the Status of the Most Current Version
Ł Watermarks Reflect the Document Status

Note: See online Help for Watermarks behavior



Print Order
When printing more than one file, you can change the order in which Adept prints the documents. Simply select a file then click either the Up or Down button.


PRINT USING PUBLISHWAVE*optional
PublishWave is an add-on application used to print or publish documents:
* manually (on demand)
* automatically, based on certain (check in/approve) actions executed within Adept. The Adept Admin installs the PW Server and configures it by defining output devices, formats, and queues.
* Printed refers to hard copy output (paper)
* Publish refers to electronic output in formats such as PDF, TIF, DXF (AutoCAD only), and Parasolids (SOLIDWORKS only).
Note: this feature is discussed in more detail in a later section.

Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 9, which is included alongside this document.










EDITOR / CREATOR




          Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Editor/Creator	3
Inbox	3
Inbox Leaves	3
View the Inbox of Other Users	3
View File	4
Unassign Document	4
Assign Document	4
Work Areas	5
Manage Work Areas	5
Symbols in the Work Area Window	6
Invalid Work Areas	6
Paths	6
Filter	7
Add/Edit/Remove a Work Area	7
Add Work Area	7
Edit Work Area	8
Show in Windows Explorer	8
Remove Work Area	9
Finding a Work Area	9
Printing the Work Area Tree:	9
Practice/Questions	10
Check Out A Document	11
Check Out CAD format documents	11
Open	12
Check Out and Open	12
Editing Data Cards	13
Update Document	13
Extracted Fields	13
Data Card Field Color (Status: OUT)	13
Data Card Field Type	15
Override Rights	15
Release Ownership of a Document	16
Release Check Out	16
Undo Check Out of Unchanged Children	16
Undo Check Out	17
Acquire Check Out	18
Check In A Document	19
Check In Options	19
Check In New Documents	20
Practice/Questions	20
Document Commands	21
Copy/Move/Rename/Delete	21
Copy	21
Move	22
Rename	22
Delete	22
Create a New File	23
Practice/Questions	25
Batch Update	26
Relationships	27
Manual	27
Glyph for Relationships	28
Version Locking of Child Document	28
Practice/Questions	30


PURPOSE
As the role of the document Editor/Creator, you will learn how to create new documents, check in new documents to a library, check out documents to a work area for editing, perform batch updates, create relationships among documents, and more.

EDITOR/CREATOR
An Adept Editor/Creator is anyone who is able to Check Out a document from a Library to a Work Area with the intent to modify the document. An Editor/Creator also has the abilities of a Viewer/Explorer and Reviewer.

INBOX
The fastest way to locate documents that are Work-In-Progress for the user is from the Inbox.
Tab: Home > Windows > Inbox
Tab: View > Document Windows > Inbox
Status Bar: InboxIf documents have been Assigned to you or if there is a document in a workflow for you to review, your Inbox symbol will change

Inbox Leaves:
In the left pane, select each category to see the list of documents for each type. Select your login to see a list of everything in your Inbox.
documents Assigned to the user documents Checked Out by the user
documents where the user is a Reviewer in a workflow step and the documents are ready for them to Review

View the Inbox of Other Users
* Right-click in the left pane of the Inbox window and select Inbox Membership
* Decide if you want to only choose users in your circle or choose from all users
* Double-click on the User(s) for which you want to view their Inbox and select OK.
You could also select the user(s) and click the left arrow button (<	), to Include their Inbox.



View File
When a document has been assigned to you or forwarded to you to review as part of a workflow, you may want to first View the document to look what has changed or if there any markups. This will help you decide what needs to be done next.

ASSIGN DOCUMENT
You can assign a document for review to any user that has view rights for that library. When a document is assigned, the document status is set to Assign, AssignHold, or AssignReview. This depends on the status of the document prior to assigning it.

Select the document you want to assign and select the Assign command:
	

In the Assign dialog, select a user to whom you want to assign the document(s) and select OK

UNASSIGN DOCUMENT
If you reviewed a document and no longer need to have the document assigned to you or if the file was incorrectly assigned to you, Unassign the document. The assignor may also want to unassign the document and assign it to someone else.

Select the document, then select the Unassign command:
 
* This cancels the assignment and clears the Owner field
* If the document was waiting for a review by you, the document status changes to Review.
* When you Unassign a document which is waiting for review by someone else, the document status changes to Hold.
* If you Unassign a document that is IN a library, the status changes to IN.
Note: Only the Last Owner, Current Owner, Adept Administrator, or user with Workflow Manager library access rights has the ability to Unassign a document.


WORK AREAS
A Work Area is required if you will Check In, Check Out, or Create New documents. This your personal work space that contains your Work-In-Progress (WIP) files:
* New files not yet Checked In to a library
* Files Checked Out from a library
* Files copied from the library which have a status of Duplicate (or NEW if renamed during Copy)

Work Areas can be:
* On your local hard drive
* A network drive (private or shared)
Note: do not set your work area to a Windows Temporary directory.
Note: Adept does not support work areas mapped to a One Drive or Dropbox location.

Manage Work Areas:
* Add new Work Areas
* Copy documents from one Work Area to another
* Drag and Drop files from Windows Explorer to a Work Area
* Delete new documents from Work Areas
* Remove Work Areas
* Edit the name and location of Work Areas (if allowed by Admin).
If not editable, the name of the Work Area is the same as the Work Area folder
* Open and modify files outside of Adept with native applications

You may have as many Work Areas as necessary to help organize your documents.
	

Work Areas are listed in the left pane and all the files in the currently selected Work Area are shown in the right pane. Notice the Status column for each file.



Symbols in the Work Area Window
 

When logging into Adept, by default, all Work Areas are validated. This behavior is determined by an option set by the Administrator. There is also an option that determines if a user is able to edit the Label Field.


Invalid Work Areas
When your Work Area path is no longer correct (ex: folder was deleted or moved), you will need to resolve the path using the Edit Work Area command.

Paths
* Unchecked, the Work Area name or Label is displayed.
* Checked, the disk paths are displayed. If a label was used, this display shows the actual folder path and name:


Note: The Status Bar displays additional information about the selected Work Area.



Filter
You can display or hide files with specific extensions. This is helpful if you have a lot of files in your work area.


ADD/EDIT/REMOVE A WORK AREA
Select the commands from the Edit tab in the Ribbon bar or Right-click in left pane of the Work Area window for shortcut menu:


 Best Practice Tip: When adding a Work Area, set it to be a folder on a Network drive. The advantage is that you can access your Work Area from any workstation you are logged into and the Work Area folder can be backed up by your routine network backup procedure.

Add Work Area...
Add new work area on either a local drive or network drive using Browse... in the dialog window

Note: Two users may never define their work areas to point to the same directory unless the directory will be administered as a 'shared work area'. DO NOT set your work area to a Windows Temporary directory.


Edit Work Area...
This command can be used to change the name or path of an Adept Work Area. If there are New files or Checked Out files in the Work Area being edited, a prompt will ask if you want to move them. You may prefer to check in any files before editing the Work Area.


Show in Windows Explorer...
Opens location of the work area folder in Windows Explorer.

WARNING: DO NOT delete or move files with a status of OUT from within a Work Area from a Windows Explore window.


Remove Work Area
Removes only the Adept reference to an existing Work Area folder from within the Adept environment. No files will be deleted. Before deleting the Work Area, you must Check In, or Release Check Out of, all the documents that are Checked Out or NEW to that Work Area.


Adept will not allow users to remove work areas that have documents Checked Out.


Finding a Work Area
Right-click in left pane of Work Area window and select Find Leaf...

Printing the Work Area Tree:
To print a list of the entire Work Area tree, right-click in the left pane of the Work Area window and select Print Tree...


This will print the Work Area tree in the view on the screen, Label or Paths.





Or


PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 10, which is included alongside this document.


CHECK OUT A DOCUMENT
Adept protects documents in Checked and Unchecked Libraries by requiring that you check out documents before they can be edited. To check out documents, select the document(s) and select Check Out or drag and drop the document(s) from the Favorites, FileGuide, Inbox, Library Browser, or Search Results window to the Work Area window.


Note: The Check Out command is disabled if you do not have Check Out Library Access Rights for the library where the document resides.

Note: See online Help for a description of all options
Upon Check Out, Adept creates a copy of the selected document in the selected Work Area and the status of the document changes to Out. Other users are only able to copy or view the document and its data card. They cannot check out, edit, move, or modify the document or its data.

The Adept version of the document moves to the next higher numbered major version and the first minor version (ex: version 2.0 becomes 3.1).

Check Out CAD format documents
When you check CAD documents (AutoCAD, Inventor, SOLIDWORKS) that contain external references (Xrefs) or external parts, Adept maintains the parent/child relationship by creating virtualized copies of the children in the user's Virtual Library. You do not have to Check Out all of the Children to resolve the CAD file in the native application.


Open
To Open a file with the intent to edit, the file must have a status of Out or New in your Work Area or be in an Open Library.

You can open a file 2 ways:
* Double-click the file in your Work Area (if set in the User General Options)
* Right-click on file and select Open from the list.


Open Application - allows you to open with native application
Note: When using the Adept Task Pane, you must open the file from within the Task Pane for the parent/child relationships to resolve properly in your CAD software.

Open Read-Only - you can open any document that you are allowed to view; typically used to allow you to add a 3rd party viewer. Set the default viewer for the type of document.

Check Out and Open
This command will Checks Out the selected document and then immediately opens the document. Right-click on a document and select Check Out and Open.
Note: When using the Adept Task Pane, you cannot use this command for the parent/child relationships to resolve properly in your CAD software.

This command can only be done on one document at a time. The user must have the rights to Check Out the document and must also have the native application installed.


EDITING DATA CARDS
Completing and editing the information on your Data Cards ensures accurate information about the file is available whenever someone views the Data Card or searches the Adept database.

Note: Your database is only as good as the content and accuracy of the information (metadata) it contains.

Update Document
When permitted, this option allows a user to edit the extracted fields for the selected file.
* To Update a file with an Out status, the user must have the right to Update Documents.
* Anyone can Update a file with a New or Duplicate status.
* To Update a file with an In, Assigned or Hold status, the user must have the additional right to Edit Data Cards in Library.
* Changes are reflected immediately in AutoCAD and MS documents.
* Changes to Inventor and SolidWorks Properties will not appear in title blocks until the file is opened in the application.

Extracted Fields
In Adept, specific database fields can be mapped to specific properties and attributes within supported CAD applications. Once the fields are mapped, the metadata can be extracted from the file and written to the Data Card.

Extracted fields can also be used to push metadata from the Data Card to the file, using the
Update Document command explained in the previous section.

Data Card Field Color (Status: OUT)
To Update Documents, whose status is IN, ASSIGNED or HOLD, you must either be an Administrator or have the Library Access Right to Update Documents. Anyone can use the Update Documents feature on documents they own that are OUT, NEW, or DUPLICATE. Light grey background, light text

* System Field - Filename, Library, Last Owner, etc. (Cannot Edit)


* Custom field designated as an Extraction field and mapped to an attribute of property
* Field is part of Related Fields. Requires Related Fields PlugIn to be enabled and configured.

Darker blue background with darker text
* Custom field designated as an Extraction field and mapped to an attribute of property and Update Document is checked.
* Custom field designated as an Extraction field but not mapped for the selected file extension.

White background
* Available to edit.

Yellow background
* Data Card has been edited but the card is not yet saved.


Data Card Field Type
Restricted List - A drop-down list in a Data Card that includes only valid choices for that field. The choices available in the menu are set by the Adept Admin

Light blue background

* Field is Protected. Requires Edit Protected Fields right in that Library.
* If Status of file is IN, also requires Edit Data Cards rights in that Library.
Note: Only a workflow manager with override rights or an Adept Admin can enter a value other than one of the restricted values.
Protected Fields - a property set on a field to prevent users from changing the value.
Light purple background


Field is Protected (ex: Project Name or Project Number) and can only be edited by Users who have the Edit Protected Fields right set per Library.
Note: The right does not apply to a document with a status of NEW or DUPLICATED.

Override Rights
This command allows you to edit an Extraction field or a Restricted field on a Data Card, but it does not update the document. An extraction field contains data extracted from a document property or attribute.
* You can edit an Extraction field or Restricted field that appears on your Data Card but may not exist on every drawing or document.
* Admin must enable Edit Data Card in Library in the Editing Level Rights settings.
* This feature allows the editing of data cards on files with a status of In or Hold.
* An Editor can use this command for documents Checked Out to their Work Area.
* Right-click on a Data Card and select Override Rights > Edit Extraction Fields.



RELEASE OWNERSHIP OF A DOCUMENT
Release Check Out
This command is like an undo for the Check Out command. It changes the status of the Checked- Out document back to a status of In without making any changes to the file in the Library and it leaves a copy in the Work Area with a status of Duplicate.
 

The Adept version of the file does not change. The document can be checked out by other users. Reasons to use this command:
* You actually intended to Copy the file, rather than Check Out.
* After you checked a file out you realize you no longer need to edit the file.
* The project was abandoned, and you need to return all files to their original state.

Undo Check Out of Unchanged Children
When you Check Out assemblies and a large number of children and after you complete your work, you may have a substantial number of unchanged children.

Use Undo Check Out of Unchanged Children command to:
* release ownership of those unchanged children.
* restore the assembly external references to point to the version before the child was checked out.
 

Select one or more parent files with at least one child that is OUT, and select Undo Check Out of Unchanged Children.



You can also issue the Undo Check Out command as an option during Check In:


This command performs the following sequence of operations:
* Determine which children have not changed.
* Change their status from OUT to IN or OUT to HOLD depending on the status before they were checked out.
* Delete the copy of the OUT file from the Work Area.
* If Adept detects that the Data Card metadata has changed, you will be notified before the OUT file is discarded, giving you the opportunity to save the document metadata.
* Fix the external reference of the assembly to point to the version of the file pointed to before the file was checked out. (This would fix references to point to the IN version of a file checked out from the Library, or the Hold version of a file checked out from Hold.)

Undo Check Out
If the Administrator has enabled this option in Backstage > Options, users may have the ability to Undo Check Out. This command is an option during Check In by checking the option box for Undo Check Out on the Check In dialog.

This option acts like the Release Check Out command, except Undo Check Out will also remove the file from the user's Work Area. The Release Check Out command leaves a copy of the file behind.


Acquire Check Out
Acquire Check Out creates a link between the Library copy and the Duplicate copy in your Work Area. A document obtains a status of Duplicate when you copy a document from a library.
 

Reasons to use this command:
* You copied a document from a Library to a Work Area to experiment and decide that you want to propose the changes.
* You found a newer version of a document outside of Adept.
* You receive a document to Check In to Adept from an external source (ex: from a vendor).

In your Work Area, select one or more documents (from the same library) that have a Status of Duplicate. Then select the Acquire Check Out command.


Note: if Acquire Check Out is not an option after selecting multiple files, it is likely that the files selected do not all belong to the same Adept library.


CHECK IN A DOCUMENT
When you have finished editing your document, return your changed document(s) back to the Library by selecting Check In.


For documents that were Checked Out of a Library, the documents are returned to the Library from where they were Checked Out.

Check In Options
Keep Out - The changed document is Checked In to the library (the Adept version increments) but the document remains Checked Out (same as checking it in and then checking out again).

Undo Check Out -Unchanged documents are released. The document status changes from Out to In. The document is also removed from your Work Area.
Note: This command is only allowed if it is enabled by the Adept Admin (Options > Admin)

Assign To - The document can be assigned to any user authorized to access the library where document resides.

Create Version - Typically this check box is not active because the option to Always Auto Save Major is turned on. A version of the document is saved by either of these methods.


Check In New Documents
When a document is New and has never been checked into a library, you must select a Destination library where the documents are to be checked In. You also have the options to Assign to and Keep Out.
When you Check In multiple documents at the same time, you can select the files to Check In and the options for each:


PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 11, which is included alongside this document.


Document Commands
The commands that are available to a user depends on the Adept window in which the document is selected, the document status, and your user rights.

Copy/Move/Rename/Delete
To see which commands are available to you, right-click on a document in any window. The commands that are not grayed out are available to use for the selected document.


Copy
When you Copy one or more documents, you have options to select a Work Area, Rename the document, add a Prefix and/or Suffix, replace characters and Copy Data Card information for the selected document(s).
	

When a document Status is New, Duplicate, or Out, you can copy the document(s) from one work area to another.

When a document Status is In or Review, you must have rights to Copy.

When copying a document to your Work Area and you keep the same name, the document status becomes Duplicate. When you copy and change the name, the document status becomes New.


Copy Data Card information with files - copies all metadata for that document, not just the data displayed on the Data Card

Replace all characters - replaces all characters within the document name(s)

New Filename - to copy the document as a new name.
Note: Selecting this option will also remove the file extension. Be sure to add it when creating a new filename.

AutoName - The AutoName PlugIn is enabled and configured by the Adept Admin. This PlugIn appears in the New Document, Copy, and Rename dialogs. It automatically generates document names based on the AutoName configuration. Each predefined name format consists of one or more segments that together create a document name. When using AutoName, other rename options are disabled and ignored. When a document you want to rename or copy already has an extension, the extension is maintained.

Move
	
* Documents can be moved from one library to another if you have the right to Move documents between Libraries for both libraries and the Document Status is In. The Adept Admin has the ability to set these rights.
* A document with a Status of Out can only be moved between Work Areas.
* Moving documents from one library to another also moves all Versions of those documents and updates the path in the database to maintain the link.

Rename
 
* Documents that have a status of New, Duplicate, Out (to you) can be renamed
* Documents that have a status of In or Review can only be renamed if you have Rename documents in Libraries rights. The Adept Admin has the ability to set this right.

Delete
	
You can delete documents with a status of New or Duplicate that are in your work area
* To delete documents that have a status of In or Out (to you), you must have the right to Delete documents from Libraries. All associated metadata, history records, versions, and the file in the current database will be deleted.


* If you are an administrator, when you delete document that is OUT to you in your work area, the delete command does an Undo Check Out followed by a Delete which deletes the file from the work area and returns the documents to its previous state of In or Hold.
Note: There is no undo for deleting documents. Once documents are deleted, they can only be restored from your trash or your network backups.

CREATE A NEW FILE
Any Editor may create a New Document or Unlinked Record in their Work Area.
An Unlinked Record is a record not connected to a document (ex: a paper document in your desk drawer, a box in storage, or just an information source). An Unlinked Record is just a data card without a file.
 

AutoName - auto-generated name; criteria configured by Adept Admin.

Document/Application Description - Select a document or application template. Templates are created by your Adept Administrator and may contain company standard title blocks, formatting, layers, styles, properties.
Note: This option is not used when creating an Unlinked Record

Work Area - the work area where the new file will be created. You can also Drag and Drop any new file into the work area.


Document Type - select the type of document you want to create:
* Document
* Unlinked Record - displayed in Adept Windows in italic font.
Ł Any user can link an Unlinked Record they have checked Out.
Select the document and select the Link to Document command found on the Tools tab.
Ł An Adept Admin can change an unlinked Record with a status of In.
* Transmittal (transmittal plugin required - additional information is in the PlugIn description)
Ł You select the Transmittal Template to be used (custom or default).
Ł To create, edit, check in/out, approve, send transmittals, and include cover letter and report of metadata.
Ł Creates a new document with .pdf extension.

Status
* New - Creates a new document or Unlinked Record in your work area with a Status of New
* Out from Library - creates New Document or Unlinked Record in the selected library with a status of Checked Out in your work area. (Must have Edit rights in the specified Library.)
Note: If the selected library has a defined Workflow assigned, this option will fail if the first step of the Workflow does not allow Check Out. The file or record will be created in the Hold area, but NOT Checked Out.



* Create Series - This option lets you create a series of sequentially numbered Documents or Unlinked Records based on the document name, extension, and number of documents you specified in the dialog box.

The sequential numbers are appended to the document name. (ex: bracket0.sldprt) through bracket5.prt). Up to 1000 documents can be created in one sequence.

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
P For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 12, which is included alongside this document.


BATCH UPDATE
Batch Update allows you to add or update common information for two or more records. The default maximum is 20.

The Adept Administrator can specify the maximum number of records/files that can be updated simultaneously when using Batch Update. The Administrator can also enable an unlimited number of Batch Updates, but this should be using sparingly.

To Batch Update files with an In or Hold/Review status, you must also have the right to Edit Data Cards in Library.


* Select multiple documents to be updated.
* Select the Batch Update command.
In the Batch Update dialog box, check the box to Update Document and enter the information you want applied to all selected documents. Select Save and Close.

* View the Data Card for the updated documents or display the Columns in which you made changes.




RELATIONSHIPS
Manual
You can manually create parent/child relationships between any document types. After creating the relationships, you can view them in the Document Dashboard using the Children and Where Used (shows parents) tabs.

Adept relationships can be one-to-one, one-to-many, many-to-one, and many-to-many. There is no limit to the number of relationships that one file can have.


* Select the parent first.
* Select the Create/Edit Relationship command.

* Locate and select one or more other documents to create a relationship with the parent (photos, reference drawings, emails, etc). Select OK when finished adding files. Select OK when finished.
* Select the parent and open the Document Dashboard
* Select the Children tab to see the manual relationship.
All relationships will be displayed in the left pane and on the Children tab of the Document Dashboard.


* Select one of the children (ex: E1.pdf), then select the Where Used tab to see the parent.


GLYPH FOR RELATIONSHIPS

Assembly or DrawingDocument is a ParentPart or XrefDocument is a ChildSub-AssemblyDocument is both a parent and a ChildA Solidworks Child that contains configurationsChildA Solidworks Parent that contains configurationsParentAutoCAD dwg document with layoutsSub-documents are inside this document
VERSION LOCKING OF CHILD DOCUMENT
Supported CAD documents, such as AutoDesk and SOLIDWORKS, contain external references to children documents.

When you click on the Children tab at the bottom of the Document Dashboard, the list in the right pane shows all first level children of the document selected in the left pane. The Child Version column indicates the Adept version level of the files.

An Adept Admin has the ability to set an Option that controls the default behavior that determines which version of the child to point to through the versioning process. The Options are Fix, Float, or Dock.



FloatThis external reference always points to the current approved version in the Library.
When the library version is revised, the external reference "floats" up to the latest current document version.
DockWhen the parent is checked in, it knows which versions of its children were referenced at that time and stays fixed to the child version.
When the parent is checked out, it automatically floats up to the current version of its children and continues floating until the parent is checked back in.
When Adept creates a version of the parent, the copy that Adept creates in the version database always fixes on the child it was referencing when the parent was checked in.
If a child is currently checked Out, the work-in-progress copy is the one that is referenced. In other words, Dock uses the Float method when documents are Out and the Fix method when documents are In. When using Dock, the relationship will float to the latest minor version of a child and eventually will doc to the approved major version.
Fix CurrentThe external reference is fixed to whatever the version of the document that is currently IN the library. After that document is revised, the new numbered version becomes
the external reference.Fix PreviousFix the version to any previous version of the child.Fix WIPWhen a child has a status of Out, Hold or New, and its parent is also Out, you can fix the version level to point to the version that is currently work-in progress. After this work-in- progress document is checked in, the parent now links to it.

Use Fix WIP if you always want the external reference to continue to point to the version you are now editing in your Work Area or that is waiting for approval in WIP area.Notes:
* The In-Progress option only appears if both parent and child are Out.
* SolidWorks users - Due to limitations in the SolidWorks integration, be aware of the following requirement. If you change Version Locking of a child and the parent of that child has a status of OUT, NEW or DUPLICATE, you must run the Adept SolidWorks integration command, Refresh References from Adept or Refresh All References from Adept.



An Adept User can modify the type of Child Versioning one or more documents within the Children tab in the Document Dashboard if the Adept Admin has enabled the rights to change version locking.
Each document listed under the Children tab in the Document Dashboard has a drop down menu of versioning choices that can be applied. The available choices depend on the status of the parent and child. For example, if the Parent 004-Piping Layout.dwg is in Review Status:

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 13, which is included alongside this document.


Adept










BASICS
ADDITIONAL FEATURES






















Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Backstage	3
Adept Options	4
General	4
User Display	5
Workstation	6
Virtual Library	8
Refresh the Virtual Library	9
Other Searches	9
Special Flags	9
Customizing Ribbons	10
Create a Custom Ribbon Tab	10
Create a Ribbon Set	12
Activate Ribbon Tabs/Set	13
Drag and Drop	13
Create a Relationship	14
To a Work Area	14
From Work Area	15
From Windows File Explorer to an Adept Work Area	15
From one Work Area to another Work Area	16
Searching For Libraries	16
Document Dashboard	17
Replace Child	17
Setting Document Types	18
Re-extracting Information	19
Other Extract commands	20
Shared Work Area	20
Send To	21
Batch Open and Save	22
Practice/Questions	23

PURPOSE
This section covers additional helpful features.

BACKSTAGE
To the left of the Ribbon tabs in the Adept Window is an oval known as the Backstage. Clicking the arrow opens a special menu. This menu can also be accessed by selecting the Tools tab > Options panel > Options.


OptionsUser options - apply to each user's own login and can be set
by any Adept user.
Administrator options - only modified by Adept Administrators; affects behavior of Adept and Users.Configure Data SourceConfiguration that allows Adept to connect to any Adept database. Useful when a user/admin needs access to two separate Adept environments, such as Dev, Test, and Production.Ribbon Tab ManagerAllows a user to create one or more custom ribbon tabs. These tab(s) contain the commands the user uses most.Ribbon Set ManagerUser can select which tab to use. Also allows user to share their tab(s) with others.Ribbon Command SearchHelps users find any Adept command. As an example, entering "search" will display all commands relating to searching.


Adept Options General

Enable auto login - When checked, user is not prompted for login information.
Double-clicking desktop icon launches directly into Adept.
Remember column sorting - When checked, the last column sort selected in each window will be remembered the next time you log in. When unchecked the default column sort, Filename, will be restored the next time you log in.
Re-open active windows on login - When checked, the windows that were displayed the last time you exited Adept, with the exception of the Search Results window, will be restored on your next login.
During Assign show me who is logged in - When checked, the next time you Assign a file using the Assign command or the Assign option during Check In, [IN] will be displayed next to a user who is currently logged in to Adept. This option checks the database for users currently checked in.
Set Information Source to Library on login - When checked, the Information Source will be set to Library the next time you log in. Unchecked, the Information Source will be set to Work in Progress.
View User Log Document - Opens local user log in Notepad and contains login and error messages that may be useful to Helpdesk. The file is named <username>.log and is located in your AdeptSupport folder.
Change Password - Dialog to add or change your Adept password.


Double-click action - You can choose what action is taken when you double-click a file.
Font Settings - Changing the Font setting for Linked and Unlinked records affects your Adept display. The Data Card settings will affect how your Data Card is displayed.
Work in Progress - The color provides a visual way to see which files in your display are Work in Progress. This selection directly affects the color displayed for the Information Source setting.

User Display


FileGuide - This option affects how Adept lists files in your FileGuide. When this option is checked, Adept displays all the files in all leaves below the leaf you have selected. When the option is not checked, Adept lists just the files in the leaf you have currently selected and omits any files in other leaves beneath it.
Quick Search - When checked, the Quick Search history is retained and available on a dropdown list.
Sharing: Default Rights Granted to Others - When you share an object such as Column Sets or Favorites, you have the ability to set the rights that you grant to recipients. For example, a manager might prefer that the share is not editable, whereas another user might grant rights to modify or remove the share. The default value that you set here only determines the starting value. You can modify each shared object.


Maximum number of leaves in Search Tree - You can set the number of results are saved in the Search Results tree. The oldest leaf in each tree over the maximum will automatically be deleted as new leaves are created.

Workstation

Automatically enter markup mode when viewing documents - When checked, if the file selected to View has Markups, the Viewer will open the file in Markup Mode, displaying any markups. Printing the same file by selecting Print from the File menu will include the markups. Unchecked, the Viewer will open the file in the normal view mode.
Load documents to fit in viewer - This option affect the viewing area when the Viewer opens. When checked, the viewing area is maximized in the Viewer window and the image is set to Zoom Fit. Unchecked, the viewing area is smaller and the image does not Zoom Fit.
Clear Viewer Cache on Logout - When checked, the Clear viewer cache on logout clears the local and server Viewer cache when you Exit Adept.
The default setting for the Clear viewer cache on logout option is unchecked.
Use viewer operations dialog - When choosing to view documents, the Adept Viewer Operations dialog shows information about the documents status of the Viewing progress.


Auto update Document Dashboard - When checked, all tabs of the Document Dashboard are automatically updated with the current information about the selected file. Unchecked, the background color of the left pane changes to gray to indicate the update function is off. Right-click a file and select Show in Document Dashboard to update the Document Dashboard with the current information about that file. This option checks the database for current information about the selected file to update the Document Dashboard.
Document Dashboard Display and Virtual Library Population - Enable these options in order to speed up Adept when opening a file with AutoCAD Overlays, SOLIDWORKS In-Context References, or Inventor Substitute References. When the option is selected, the Document Dashboard tree will show an icon at the appropriate node in the relationship tree, an infinity sign to indicate that Adept will not attempt to follow the relationship tree further than this component. This speeds the display, because the Virtual Library will not be populated below this node. These options affect the listing of children in these areas:
* Document Dashboard
* Send To, with Include Children option
* Search for Children
* Children selected for Check In
   * Children selected with the extension Check Out Children with Parent Stop at AutoCAD Overlays - When you enable the option Stop at AutoCAD
Overlays, Adept displays the Parent/Child hierarchy in the depth used by the AutoCAD software. (Basically the AutoCAD convention limits Xrefs to only the first generation.) Use this option in Adept if you regularly use AutoCAD and want the Adept commands to reflect the AutoCAD conventions. Uncheck this option if you prefer to ignore the AutoCAD conventions for Overlays.
Stop at SolidWorks In Context References - When you enable the option Stop at SolidWorks In-context References, Adept displays the Parent/Child hierarchy to the child that the In-context file is created. Use this option in Adept if you regularly use In-context references and desire to increase performance when working with In-context files.
Stop at Inventor Substitute References - When you enable the option Stop at Inventor Substitute, Adept displays the Parent/Child hierarchy to the assembly child from where the substitute was created. Use this option in Adept if you regularly use substitute levels of detail and desire to increase performance when working with substitute files.
Stop at Microstation No Nesting References - When you enable the option Stop at Microstation No Nesting References, Adept displays the Parent/Child hierarchy only to the depth of the No Nesting reference and no further. In documents where No Nesting references are used, this option reduces the number of children copied to the Virtual Library as well as reduces the amount of time required for a Search for Children command to complete.


Path to Adept Support Folder - Adept uses a folder called the Support Directory to store temporary files, informational files used by the installation program, and reference files for Assemblies. The files copied for this purpose are called the Virtual Library. The current location of the Support Folder is shown in this field. You can also change it by clicking on the associated Browse button.
Because the Virtual Library could consist of nested folders, it is recommended that you create this Support folder as close to the root as possible in order to reduce the length of nested paths.
Path to Adept Work Areas - This displays the default base path for your Work Areas. This path is established during installation, and the first time you create a new Work Area it will default to this root name. You can change the path for any Work Area when you add or edit it.
Virtual Library - When checked, your Virtual Library is automatically cleared each time you login to Adept. Unchecked, the reference file will continue to accumulate until manually cleared. The Clear button can be used at any time to empty the Virtual Library.
Use Adaptive Wait Times - In many cases, this option reduces communication time between server and workstation, and should be kept unless instructed otherwise by Synergis.

VIRTUAL LIBRARY
A Virtual Library helps manage the relationships between CAD documents and their parents and children.
Note: It is important that you NEVER directly edit files in the Virtual Library. Files should always be Checked Out from Adept.
* Adept automatically copies the referenced children into a Virtual Library on your workstation whenever you open a document in its native application
* Users must have at least View access to the library in which the Child is stored in order for the document to be copied into the Virtual Library
* These copied files are for reference only, and should not be accessed directly
* The Virtual Library typically speeds up response time, since the documents are accessed locally without needing to travel over the network
* The Virtual Library allows:
Ł the user to work if the network is down or if there is a network failure
Ł documents to be referenced locally, not from the network
* Applications, such as SOLIDWORKS, require that the program be permitted to write into these reference documents. You can grant write access to some document types by listing the extensions in Options. Select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Virtual Library from the tree.
* Parts and Xrefs copied into the Virtual Library maintain their Adept status (ex: if the document is IN before it is copied into the Virtual Library, it remains IN).


* Documents in the Virtual Library are copies and can become "out-of-date." To edit a document, it must be checked out. To ensure you are working with the most recent reference documents, you can force Adept to refresh your virtual library.

Refresh the Virtual Library
From the Tools tab, Virtual Library panel


Clears all documents from your Virtual Library, forcing fresh
downloads
Downloads current copies of selected files and all of their children
Downloads current copies of all documents referenced in your active Work Area and all their children
Downloads current copies of all documents referenced in all of your Work Areas
OTHER SEARCHES
Special Flags
Documents with Markups, Thumbnails, and Text in Memo tab
Field Name: S_MEMOTYPE Display Name: Memo Flag
This field can be searched to locate files that contain one of the special characteristics listed below. Select Memo Flags: (system) from the expanded 'in field:' list. In the Quick search text box, enter:
* - Memo tab contains text
* - record has Thumbnail
* *M - record contains Adept Markup (Redline)
* *R - record contains Old AutoVue Redlines



Extended Data
Field Name: S_HASER
Display Name: Has Extended Record
This field can be searched to locate AutoCAD files that contain Layouts and SolidWorks files that contain Configurations. Select Has Extended Record (system) from the expanded 'in field:' list. In the Quick search text box, enter:


CUSTOMIZING RIBBONS
Allows Users and Admins to create, edit, and delete custom ribbon tabs. Custom tabs typically contain a set of most commonly-used commands by the Users or Admins. Custom Ribbons can be shared with other Users. An Adept Administrator can activate Custom Ribbons for specific users so that when they first login, the ribbon will already be active.

Create a Custom Ribbon Tab
* From the Backstage menu, Select Ribbon Tab Manager
* In the Ribbon Tab Manager dialog window, select New Custom Tab


* In the upper right pane, enter a Ribbon Tab Name
* In the upper left pane, select a command you want in your ribbon set and select Add or double-click on the command to be added. An icon and the command appears in the right pane. Continue to add commands and until you have selected all the commands you wish to have in your custom ribbon. Notice you can modify the order Using Move Up and Move Down and you can Remove any of the commands from the right pane. You can also Add a Separator. Select OK when you are finished.
* You will now see your custom tab in the Ribbon Tab Manager. Notice you can Edit, Copy, Delete, or Share the Custom Tab.

* To share your new tab with others, select Share Custom Tab. In the right pane, double-click on Users or Groups you want to share your ribbon tab with.
* In the left pane, right-click on a user to allow/disallow editing/sharing.


* Select OK to exit the System Tab Manager when you are finished.

Note: After creating or editing a Ribbon tab, you must log out and log back into Adept before using it.

Create a Ribbon Set
* From the Backstage Options, select Ribbon Set Manager, and Select <Show All Tabs>
Notice your custom tab is shown to the right of the default Adept ribbon tabs. These are all tabs available to use for your custom ribbon set.


* Select New Ribbon Set. Enter a name for your new Ribbon set. Notice your custom ribbon tab is Hidden. To be able to see this when setting a new ribbon set, Toggle this to be Visible by selecting your custom tab and then the Toggle Show/Hide button.


Toggle other tabs you want to hide. To change the order of the tabs, use Move Up/Down. Select OK to exit the Ribbon Set Manager.
* Exit out of Adept and log back in to have your changes saved.

Activate Ribbon Tabs/Set
* Open the Ribbon Set Manager. Select and Edit your custom Ribbon Set. Notice your settings are saved. Cancel the Edit. Select your custom Ribbon Set and Select Use Selected Set.
* Exit out of Adept and log back in to see your Ribbon set.


DRAG AND DROP
Many operations within Adept can be performed by dragging and dropping files:
* Creating relationships with other documents
* Checking files In/Out
* Copy files from one of the Adept windows to the Work Area
* Copy files from Windows File Explorer to Adept windows:
Search Results, Favorites, Inbox, Library Browser or FileGuide, Work Area
* Assigning users to Groups (Admin)
* Assigning Groups to Libraries (Admin)
* Move files between work areas


Note: you can only drag FROM an Inbox, but NOT TO an Inbox


Create a Relationship
* Select a document in an allowed Adept window (see above)
* Drag and drop the document onto another document in the same window or drop it to one of the Window buttons in the Status Bar
* An option appears (may vary depending on the window you are dragging from/to):
Ł Results, Library Browser, FileGuide Windows: Create/Edit
Ł Favorites Window: Add to Favorites List or Create Relationship
Ł Work Area Window: Create Relationship, Copy, or Check Out

When creating a new relationship, the document being dragged is the Child and the document it is being dropped onto is the Parent.

Use the ESC key or Cancel button to cancel without creating/editing the relationship.

To a Work Area
When dragging from a Search Results, Favorites, Inbox, Library Browser or FileGuide window and dropping to a Work Area button in the Status Bar, you have a choice to:
* Create Relationship
* Copy the file
* Check Out the file

Use the ESC key to cancel the operation.


From Work Area
When dragging from a Work Area window to the other window buttons in the Status Bar, you have a choice to:
* Create Relationship
* Check In

Use the ESC key to cancel the operation.

From Windows File Explorer to an Adept Work Area.
When you drag a file from Windows File Explorer, Adept prompts if you want to:
* Copy Documents - to your current Work Area. This option simply copies the file from its existing location and places the copy in the Adept Work Area.
* Make Work Area - creates a new work area, using the folder (and its path) as the new Work Area. Adept automatically scans the new Work Area for any files already stored in the folder and extracts them and applies an Adept Status to each file.


Note: When selecting Check In, file(s) are first copied to the active Work Area.


From one Work Area to another Work Area
Drag a document from the current work area and drop onto another work area listed in the left pane of the Work Area window.


SEARCHING FOR LIBRARIES
When you are prompted to Select a Library (ex. Create New document), a dialog box appears to select a Library. There are 3 methods to find a Library:

* Manually enter the name of the library into the dialog box
* Select the library from a list of recently used libraries by clicking on the left dropdown
* Select the right dropdown to find the library using the Library Browser

When using an Active Library Set, the left button will only list recently used libraries within the Active Library Set and the right button will invoke a dialog box to select from a list of libraries you have access to.

The Adept Admin chooses the default Library list display - library name or folder name.

To Change the display the Library Browser window or the Select Library tool, right-click on the Library list and select View Tree With and choose the display method you prefer.



DOCUMENT DASHBOARD
To access additional Document Dashboard functionality, right-click in the left pane to access the shortcut menu.


Replace Child
In a Parent/Child relationship, Replace Child will replace a child document with another document. You can execute this command if:
* The relationship was extracted (from supported CAD formats) or created manually (Create Relationship). Note: This option is not available in SolidWorks
* Active only when selecting a parent document that has been Checked Out by you or in a status where you can check it out.
* Library Access Right to Change Versions of Relationships is enabled (by Admin)

Steps to Replace Child
* Select parent document
* Open Document Dashboard
* Select Children tab
* In left pane, right-click on the child to be replaced
* Select the document to replace the current child document
The Replace Child command changes the links that are stored in the Adept database.

Notes: See the Help topic for Replace Child for a complete description of restrictions specific to Inventor, SolidWorks and MicroStation.


Statistics - Displays a summary of the relationships in the selected assembly.
Find Leaf - use to locate a particular part in the tree of a large assembly.

Print Tree - Prints the Relationship tree exactly as displayed and copies an image to the Clipboard.
Display all children/Display only 1st level of children - Used to control how much of the tree view is displayed.

SETTING DOCUMENT TYPES
Adept uses the Document Type field to determine which application to associate with each file. By setting the file type, a specified application will always be used when using a double- click launch in Adept.
Note: Double-click action is set in Options > General
Tab: Document > Operations > Set Document Type

If a document type is not set, the application associated with that extension in the Windows Registry will be used.

Document Types are set automatically:
* during Synchronization, Check In, or any time Adept attempts to extract information and there is only one template for that file extension
* by Opening a particular application from the Open menu
* when you create a file with New command

File Types may be set manually:
* If user owns the file (with a status of New or Out)
* If the user has the Group right to Edit Data Cards in Library (with a status of In)
* By the Administrator at any time


RE-EXTRACTING INFORMATION
Adept automatically extracts information from a document when it is Checked In, synchronized, or when the Work Area is refreshed (while the file is OUT). The Re-Extract command is used to manually extract information from documents. This is typically necessary in situations where:
* Adept started to extract data from a document and could not finish correctly due to a computer crash or failure or when trying to extract from a corrupt Autodesk document
* Adept was unable to locate an externally referenced part or xref (Unresolved Part)
* documents were edited "back door" and no longer match the system field information
* extractions were turned off when a document was checked in or when a new library containing documents was added to Adept (synchronized)

Extraction State:
* Blank (no value)
* Extracted
* In Progress

To Re-extract
* Correct any problems with the document in its native application
* Search the Extraction State field or select Search tab > Failed Extraction

* Select the documents to be re-extracted
* Select Refresh All to re-extract the data for the selected document(s)
	
The results of Refresh All depends on the behavior chosen for the Properties/Attribute Option set by Adept Admin.




Other Extract commands:
Clears selected Extracted data for selected file.
Note: This does not clear the relationships created using the Create/Edit Relationship.
	

   Refreshes only the document size.
 Extracts any text that is available in a document and copies it to the Full Text Search data for the document.
Note: Full Text Search must be enabled and configured

Inserts a reference (physical path) to a document into any application. Libraries using Virtual Library: A copy of the selected documents will be placed in the users VL. The path to the User's Virtual Library will be returned.
Libraries not using Virtual Library: A document path will only be returned if using a Direct Access Library.

SHARED WORK AREA
A Shared Work Area is a special type of Work Area that allows multiple users to access and share documents in one work area on the network.

* The Work Area must be on a network drive accessible to all users
* The user sharing the Work Area must be a Shared Work Area Administrator
* The creator of the shared work area becomes the leader of the shared work area and can add and remove members as well as elevate a user to be a leader (if that user is a Shared Work Area Administrator).
* Adept System Admins can manage any shared work area (System tab > Shared Works Areas - Adept System Admins only)



All members of the Shared Work Area will automatically see the name of the Shared Work Area listed in their Work Area window. Each member of a Shared Work Area has complete rights to edit all files in the Work Area, just as if the files were checked out to their own Work Area. Any member who has check in rights to a document Library can check in the file, even if they were not the user to Check Out the file.

SEND TO
Adept allows users to send one or more selected documents or links to documents using different methodologies:
* Send links (.als file), actual documents, or a zip file of documents
* Can include children and exclude filtered libraries
* Save the documents, zip file, or actual documents to a directory on your computer
* Send the link(s), document(s), or zip file in an email


If the recipient of a link has Adept installed, and has access to the same Data Source as the sender of the link, the receiver of the link can double-click on the
.als file (Adept List) within the email. This will invoke Adept and the documents will be listed in the Search Results window.
The links (.als) to documents are stored for a period of time as set by the Adept Admin in the Email Notifications tab of the Adept Options.
Notes:


* When sending assemblies, check Include Children to assure all Parts/Xrefs are included.
* AutoCAD internal files such as shape and font files are not automatically included.
* Zip files cannot contain duplicate filename. Therefore, if the selected files are duplicates, the zip file will not be created. You can attach a password to a zip file.

BATCH OPEN AND SAVE
The Batch Open and Save command opens documents in their native application and saves them using settings from the Batch Open and Save dialog. You need Update Documents right to run this command and must be allowed by the CAD application PlugIn.

Supported applications: AutoCAD, SOLIDWORKS, Inventor, Word, Excel

Best Practice Tip: It is recommended you use Batch Open and Save only on documents whose status is IN and do not use it on Versioned documents.

The CAD application may make some changes (ex: dimensions could move/change, centerlines, geometry shifts, etc.) if the CAD application is newer.

There is no undo after a Batch Open and Save. The old document is over-written with the migrated document and no Audit Trail history is kept. You may want to use this feature to ensure all supported CAD documents are saved in the same version after a CAD/Adept upgrade.

Select multiple documents in Adept, then select Batch Open and Save:

Tab: Edit > Batch > Open and Save


NOTE: Using the Adept Batch Open and Save on documents that have missing children can cause that document and subsequent documents in the Batch Open and Save to not process properly and can even result in lost relationships. Repair all missing children before using Batch Open and Save.



(See the online Help and the Adept User Guide for more information about Batch Open and Save and CAD application PlugIn settings)

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 14, which is included alongside this document.


Adept









WORKFLOW &
WORKFLOW MANAGER























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Workflows	3
Adept Default System Workflow	3
Multi-step Workflow	3
Workflow Roles	3
Reviewer	3
Editor/Creator	4
Workflow Manager	4
Document Manager	4
Workflow Administrator	4
Document Status	4
Working as a Workflow Manager	6
ASSIGN	6
UNASSIGN	7
Reviewing	7
Compare Documents in the Adept Viewer	7
Workflow Commands	7
Approve	8
Reject	8
Final Approve	9
View Workflow Progress	11
Create Version	11
Delete From WIP	12
Clear Markups	13
Electronically Approving Documents in Adept	13
Practice/Questions	14

PURPOSE
This section describes Workflows, Workflow Roles, and the Access rights a user can be assigned in a workflow.

WORKFLOWS
A workflow is a process of one or more steps to review and approve a document before it can be entered into a library. Workflows can only be assigned to Checked Libraries. Documents only enter a workflow when they are Checked In to a Library. There are two types of workflows:

Adept Default System Workflow
This is a single-step workflow that is automatically assigned to all libraries and documents that do not have a Custom Workflow assigned to it.
* When a document is checked in, it goes into a holding area.
* The document is reviewed by anyone designated as a Workflow Manager for that library.
* When approved, document is returned to the library with IN status and new Adept version.
* The previous copy of the document is either overwritten or saved as a Version.
* Workflow progress can be audited in the Document Dashboard Workflow tab.

Multi-step Workflow
A multi-step workflow is created by an Adept Administrator or a Workflow Administrator
* A Workflow is assigned to a library by an Adept Administrator or a Library Administrator.
* When a document is checked in, it must pass through the workflow steps before it is returned to a library.
* A group of Reviewers is assigned to each step. One or more Reviewers within the group may be required to Approve the document at each step before it can move to the next step in the review process.
* A Reviewer can also Reject a document back to a previous step.

WORKFLOW ROLES
Reviewer
* A Reviewer is a member of a group that is assigned to a step in a workflow.
* All members in the group assigned to a step are responsible for reviewing the document.
* Each Reviewer has at least the right to view the document and is authorized to issue an Approve or Reject command in that step. Approve moves the document forward in the Workflow. Reject moves the document back in the Workflow.
* A reviewer may also have rights to assign the document to another user for future work.
* If Reviewers do not have View rights to the documents, they will see
<access_denied> in their Inbox.
* Reviewers can have rights to Markup and Print documents.


Editor/Creator
* Same rights as set for Reviewer
* Has rights to Check Out a document, Open a document in the Holding area, modify a document, and Check In a document
* Edit Data Card and Protected Fields
* Create and Edit Manual Relationships
* Change Versions of Relationships

Workflow Manager
* Same rights as set for Reviewer and Editor/Creator.
* In an Adept one-step workflow, Approves the document(s).
* In a Custom multi-step workflow, can have the ability to:
Ł Approve documents forward or Reject documents backwards.
Ł Expedite documents through any workflow step in which expedite is allowed.
Ł Can expedite forwards or backwards a single step or more than one step.
Ł Reroute a document to a new workflow in any workflow step in which reroute is allowed.
Ł Delete documents from WIP.
Ł Create Versions.
Ł Unassign documents that were assigned by others.
Ł Clear markups/comments made by others.
Ł Change Relationships in previous Versions.

Document Manager
* Same rights as set for Reviewer, Editor/Creator, and Workflow Manager plus may have ability to:
Ł Rename documents in Libraries.
Ł Delete documents from Libraries.
Ł Move documents between Libraries.
Ł Update Documents.
Ł Save document to another format in the Adept Viewer.
Ł Have Library Administrator rights.

Workflow Administrator
* Has been granted a special right to create, edit, and delete workflows across the entire Adept installation using the Administer Workflow command. This is typically the Adept Administrator.

DOCUMENT STATUS
Every document has an Adept Status. The status appears in all Adept windows to let users know the state of a document. When a document is checked into a Checked Library, it is moved from a Work Area to a Holding area and can have one of 4 states: Hold, Review, AssignHold, and AssignReview.




In Search Results, Inbox, FileGuide, Library Browser, FavoritesStatus fieldAll Other FieldsDescription
In (Black)
BlackMost current version - "Latest and greatest"
Available to be checked out
Out (Magenta)
MagentaChecked out - someone is editing it Someone owns it
Copy in owner's Work AreaHold (Red)RedAwaiting Review, but not by you. Checking out affects current version
Review (Blue)
MagentaAwaiting Review - in a workflow step for which you are a Reviewer.
Checking out affects current versionAssign  (Orange)BlackAssigned to user whose name appears in the Owner field

AssignHold (Red)

MagentaWhen a document is in a workflow step for which you are NOT a Reviewer and it is also Assigned. The person to whom this document is assigned can check out or
unassign the document.
AssignReview (Blue)
MagentaWhen a document is in a workflow step awaiting Review by you and is also Assigned.Versioned (Blue)GreenAny major version of a document other than the current one.In your Work Area
Duplicate (Green)
BlackNew document
Another document of the same name exists somewhere in databaseNew (Blue)BlackNew - Never checked in to Adept Library Only exists in the Work Area
Out (Magenta)
MagentaChecked Out
Document has been Checked Out to a Work Area and can be edited

WORKING AS A WORKFLOW MANAGER
An Adept Workflow Manager has the responsibility to review, approve, reject, assign, and unassign documents that are checked in to a Checked Library and more. Refer to the Inbox to determine what is assigned to you, checked out by you, and what you are to review for a workflow step.



ASSIGN
A document can be assigned to another user for them to work on or to review. The Owner field indicates to whom the document was assigned. When email notification has been enabled by the Adept Admin, and a document enters a workflow step, an email is sent to the Reviewers for that step.

Tab: Workflow > Assign > Assign
Right Click: Assign


* When assigning a document with an IN status, the user must have the rights to Assign or Check In for that library.
* When Assigning a document with a Hold or Review status, you must have Assign rights AND be the last owner or you must be a Workflow Manager or and Adept Administrator. The document status then becomes AssignHold or AssignReview. The person who assigned the document becomes the Last Owner and the person to whom it is assigned becomes the owner.


UNASSIGN
The Unassign command cancels the Assign.

Shortcut Key: F4
Tab: Workflow > Assign > Unassign
Right Click: Unassign
* When you Unassign a document you Assigned to another user, this cancels the assignment and the Current Owner field is cleared.
* When you Unassign a document that was assigned to you, the status is changed to IN.
* Any user can Unassigned a file that was assigned to them.
* A document on AssignHold or AssignReview can only be unassigned by the owner, workflow manager and above, or Adept Administrator.

REVIEWING
You can use the Data Card associated with a document to review changes or add additional comments:
* Select the document that is Assigned to you and view the Data Card.
* Review the Data Card for any special notes or any missing information.

You can View the Edited Version of the document in the Adept Viewer or in the native application:
* Check the Information Source on the status bar of the main Adept window. This must show Work in Progress.

* Right-click the Assigned document in your Inbox then select View.

Compare Documents in the Adept Viewer
* Select the documents to be compared and select View.
* In the Adept Viewer, Right Click > Compare.

WORKFLOW COMMANDS
As a Reviewer or Editor/Creator, you can choose to Approve or Reject a document from the
Home tab or the Workflow tab. Approve is also available by right-clicking on the document.


Approve
The Approve command is used to approve a document to next step of the workflow. If this is the last step of the workflow, then the document will be go into an IN status.
Shortcut Key: F3
Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Approve Tab: Home > Workflow > Approve Right-click: Approve...

Expedite Approve. When a Workflow step permits it, the Workflow Manager can approve the document through any number of steps forward in the workflow, including approving it at the last step and returning it to the library.

Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Expedite Approve
Tab: Home > Workflow > Expedite Approve

When Expedite Approve is performed on multiple documents in the same workflow AND same Library, they can all be approved to a step higher than the highest level of the selected documents.

Doc1 is on Step 3	Can be Expedite Approve Doc 2 is on Step 7	to any step after Step 7 Doc 3 is on Step 5

Final Approve. When a Workflow step permits it, a Workflow Manager with Reviewer rights for that workflow step can bypass any other workflow steps and perform the final approval. The document will go into an IN status.

   Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Final Approve
Tab: Home > Workflow > Final Approve
Note: An Adept Admin can select one or more documents on HOLD, and issue a Final Approve.

Reject
The Reject command is used to reject a document to the previous step in the workflow. If this is the first step, this option is disabled.

Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Reject Tab: Home > Workflow > Reject Right Click: Not Available

Expedite Reject. When a Workflow step permits it, a Workflow Manager in this Library can issue an Expedite Reject.

   Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Expedite Reject
Tab: Home > Workflow > Expedite Reject


When Expedite Reject is performed on multiple documents in the same workflow, they can all be rejected to a step below the lowest level of the selected documents.

Doc1 is on Step 3	Can be Expedite Reject Doc 2 is on Step 7		to Step 1 or Step2 Doc 3 is on Step 5

When a Workflow step permits it, a Workflow Manager can reject the document any number of steps back in the workflow.

      Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Reject To
Tab: Home > Workflow > Reject To

When Expedite Reject is performed on multiple files in the same workflow, they can all be rejected to any step below the highest level. Any levels below the level chosen will not change workflow step.

Doc1 is on Step 3	Reject To can go Doc2 is on Step 7	to Step 1 to Step 6 Doc3 is on Step 5

Example: If a user chooses all three documents above and choose Reject To Step 4, Doc2 and Doc3 go to Step4 and Doc1 stays on Step 3.

Final Approve
If you are a Workflow Manager or a Reviewer in the last step of a Workflow, selecting Approve will return the selected document(s) to its Library. Workflow Managers can also perform a Final Approve for which they are a Reviewer and only at steps where the Workflow permits Expedite Approve.



When you Approve the document, Adept copies the current Library version to the next Version level in the Version database, and the document you just approved becomes the new master document in the Library with an In status.

An Adept Admin can select any documents that have a HOLD status and select Final Approve. The selected documents move to the end of their workflow and are returned to the library.

  Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Final Approve >

To Final Approve a document:
1. Select the document(s) to be Final Approved

2. Select Final Approve and check the boxes for the documents to be final approved.



3. Select the Final Approval button in the dialog box.
Notice the file is Checked In to the library and the Workflow in the Document Dashboard show Expedite Approve.


VIEW WORKFLOW PROGRESS
In the Document Dashboard and select the Workflow tab:
* Name and step of workflow
* Date/time stamps when it Arrived and Departed the workflow step
* Amount of time in the workflow
* Action taken (first check-in, approved, rejected, auto-advance, expedite approve/reject, final approve, etc.)
* Who performed the action
* Comments

Right-click on a step to show Reviewers for the selected step



CREATE VERSION
Adept manages documents as well as versions of documents. When a version is created, a current Data Card is also copied and kept with the version. Versions can be viewed or copied but it cannot be checked out or checked in.


There are 3 ways to create a version:
* When a document in returned to the Library that has been set up by the Adept Admin to "Always Auto Save Major"
* When a document is returned to a Checked Library but "Always Auto Save Major" has not been set by the Adept Admin, a Workflow Manager can select the Create Version option in the Approve dialog box.
* Select a document in a library then select Create
Shortcut Key: Ctrl+Alt+R
Tab: Workflow > Versions > Create


DELETE FROM WIP
This command is typically used when you want to abandon changes made to a document.


Tab: Workflow > Versions > Delete From WIP


Use this command cautiously. It deletes the copy of the document that is on Hold or Review and all minor versions. The document is NOT returned to the Library. After executing this command, the document status of the Library version of the document changes to back to IN. Only a user with Workflow Manager rights has the right to Delete from WIP.

Note: If the document on Hold is New and being checked into Adept for the first time, (IN once) any changes to that file will be lost if deleted.


CLEAR MARKUPS
Users with Workflow Manager rights or above, and Administrators, can clear the Markups of selected documents by selecting Clear from the View ribbon.


Tab: View > Markups > Clear


You can save markups with Versions, but you cannot edit the markups associated with Versions. If you want markups saved in the Version database, be sure the document is returned to the Library and the Version is created before you clear markups.

ELECTRONICALLY APPROVING DOCUMENTS IN ADEPT
The Approved By and Approved Date fields on the Data Card below are examples of 'Protected Fields' that can be used as an electronic approval.

1. Open Data Card. Select Approval Info tab (notice Approved By and Approved Date).
2. Select your name from the list in the Approved By field and today's date in the Approved Date field.
3. Enter other information appropriate for your approval process.
4. Click the Save Changes button to save the Data Card changes and close the Data Card.
5. Again from your Inbox, select the same document then select Approve from the Workflow ribbon or right-click menu.
6. Enter a comment and assign the document to the next person to review/approve.


PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 15, which is included alongside this document.


Adept









DOCUMENT MANAGER


























Synergis Software


           Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0


TABLE OF CONTENTS
PURPOSE	3
Working as a Document Manager	3
Deleting a Document	3
Rules when Deleting Documents	4
Delete a Document from Library (IN Status)	5
Deleting a Specific Version of a Document	6
Moving a Document	7
Move Document(s) Between Libraries	7
Renaming a Document	8
Rules When Renaming Documents	8
Rename a Document	8
Viewer Convert to PDF	9
Update Documents	11
Practice/Questions	12


PURPOSE
This section describes the Access Rights of the Document Manager Role.

WORKING AS A DOCUMENT MANAGER
In addition to assigned rights, a Document Manager inherits the rights to:
* View documents and Data Cards
* Copy documents from Libraries to Work Areas
* Check Out/In documents
* Assign Documents to other users
* Delete documents from Libraries
* Final Approve documents

Additional Access Rights can be enabled:
* Move documents between Libraries
* Rename documents in Libraries
* Update documents
* Convert documents to other formats in Adept Viewer
* Delete versions of Documents
* Library Administrator

DELETING A DOCUMENT

 Best Practice Tip: Before deleting any document, verify that it is not part of a relationship. In the Document Dashboard, check the Children tab if a parent and Where Used tab if a child. When deleting a document, what happens to the document depends on the status of the document just before it is deleted.

Document
StatusWho has Rights
to DeleteResultsNEW orAnyone hasDocument is deleted from diskDUPLICATErights to deletein yourdocumentsWork Areafrom their ownwork areasOUT inAdept AdminAdept does an Undo Check Out. Then Deletesyour WorkOr User withthe document from the Work Area. DocumentAreaDocumentreturns to previous state of IN or Hold.ManagerUser w/outThe user must first Release Check Out of theDocumentdocument.Manager

Document
StatusWho has Rights
to DeleteResultsHOLDWorkflow Manager, Document Manager,
Adept AdminDeletes all minor versions of a document. The last approved file in the Library becomes current and status returns to IN.
Note: If the file has not been approved once (version is 0.x) the file is deleted from Adept and Disk.INDocument ManagerRemoves all associated metadata, history records, and versions. Deletes the file from
Disk.VERSIONEDDocument ManagerIf minor version of document is 0, deletes the major version and all minor versions for that major version. If minor version is >0, deletes
only that specific minor version.Note: There is no undo for deleting documents. Once documents have been deleted, they can only be restored from your network backups or from your Recycle bin if your work area is on your local computer.

Rules when Deleting Documents
The following rules apply to deletions on the Adept Client. One or more rules may vary when deleting documents in Adept Desktop, Adept Task Pane or Adept Creator.
* Deleting a major version always deletes the specific major version and all related minor versions.
* Deleting a non-WIP minor version deletes only that specific minor version.
* Deleting the latest WIP OUT minor version deletes only that minor version.
* Deleting the latest WIP REVIEW minor version deletes all WIP minor versions.
* Deleting an earlier WIP REVIEW minor version deletes all WIP minor versions.
* Deleting the only existing minor version deletes that minor version.
* Deleting an earlier major version when there is a WIP OUT minor version always deletes the WIP OUT minor version.
* Deleting an earlier major version when there are WIP REVIEW minor versions always deletes all WIP minor versions.
* Deleting an earlier WIP minor version when there is a WIP OUT minor version always deletes the WIP OUT minor version.


Delete a Document from Library (IN Status)
* Select one or more documents.
* Select the Delete command.

Shortcut Key: <Delete>
  Tab: Document > Operations > Delete
Right-Click: Delete...



Warning: When you delete a document with an IN status, the document and all its Versions and History are removed from Adept

Note: All users with Document Managing Level rights have the ability to delete documents from assigned Libraries.


Deleting a Specific Version of a Document
* Search for Versions of a document from the Data Card or Document Dashboard
Ł In the Data Card, select the Version Database and enter search criteria.

Or, Select the file from the Library Browser, FileGuide list, or Results Window. In the Document Dashboard, select the document from the Versions tab
* Select the Delete command.

Shortcut Key: <Delete>
  Tab: Document > Operations > Delete
Right-Click: Delete...






MOVING A DOCUMENT
You can move documents from one Library to another.
* The document being moved must has a Status of In.
* You must have appropriate Library Access rights to Move documents between Libraries
for both (to/from) Libraries.
* Moving documents from one Library to another also moves all Versions of those documents and updates the path field in the database to maintain the link.
* Documents with a Status of Out can only be moved between Work Areas (you do not need special Library Access rights).
* Can drag and drop documents from one Work Area to another to move the documents.

Move Document(s) Between Libraries
Ł Select the document(s) to be moved.
Ł Select the Move command.
Ł Select the Destination Library.
The dropdown menu on the left shows recently accessed libraries
The dropdown on the right allows you to browse all libraries you have access to
Shortcut Key: Ctrl+X
  Tab: Document > Operations > Move
Right-Click: Move...



RENAMING A DOCUMENT
When you rename a document, all versions of the file and all references to that document are also changed. When the document is opened in a native application that is supported by Adept, (ex: Inventor or SOLIDWORKS) the Adept integration then writes the new reference name into the parent document.

Rules When Renaming Documents
* Documents with Status of NEW or DUPLICATE may be renamed by anyone with any level of access rights.
* Documents other with Status other than NEW or DUPLICATE may be renamed by users with Rename documents in Libraries access right.
* When renaming a DUPLICATE document to a unique name, the status changes to NEW.
* When renaming a NEW document to a name already used in the database, the status changes to DUPLICATE.
* Names are limited to the size of the Filename system field set by the Admin.
* Names must follow Windows document naming conventions and cannot include special characters.

Rename a Document
Ł Select the document(s) to Rename.
Ł Select the Rename command.
Shortcut Key: Ctrl+R
  Tab: Document > Operations > Rename
Right-Click: Rename
Ł Enter the criteria for the new name



Document Rename Options: Prefix, Suffix, Replace one/several/all characters, an entire new filename, or use AutoName (if configured).

AutoName: Enabled and configured by an Adept Admin; generates document names based on a standardized format.

When selecting more than one document, the selected documents are listed in the Rename dialog.
Ł Specify the Prefix, Replace Characters, or Suffix feature to change all at once.
Ł Select each document one at a time and use the fields in the dialog.
(See online Help, Rename Documents, for more information on renaming documents for SOLIDWORKS, AutoCAD, and MicroStation)

VIEWER CONVERT TO PDF
With the file opened in the Adept Viewer, choose the button at the top left area of the bar


You will then be presented with the Publish PDF options for your selected document(s)



Click on the Save PDF button



You will be presented with a window asking where you would like to save your file to


Note: When converting a document from Markup mode, markups are included in the PDF as well as the watermarks.
UPDATE DOCUMENTS
With this Library Access Right, you can update the Adept Extraction fields for:
* Autodesk DWG attributes
* Inventor, SOLIDWORKS, or Microsoft Office properties

Update Extraction Fields
* Check the Update Documents box in the Data Card
(Notice the background color of fields that can be edited change to a darker color)



* Enter new data or modify existing data in extraction fields (Notice modified fields change to a yellow background color)

* When you save the Data Card, Adept will then write the data to the appropriate field on the document.
Note: To update multiple documents at once, select the documents and select Edit tab
> Batch > Update

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 16, which is included alongside this document.


Adept













LIBRARY ADMINISTRATOR























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



Table of Contents
Purpose	3
LIBRARY ADMINISTRATOR	3
LIBRARY TREE VIEW	4
ADD LIBRARIES	5
Steps to Add a New Library	5
Options	7
Prompt	7
Information	7
Library Settings	7
ADD GROUP(S) TO LIBRARY	8
Steps to Add a Group to a Library	8
ASSIGNING LIBRARY ACCESS RIGHTS	8
Set Rights to a Group	8
COPY/PASTE LIBRARY SETTINGS	10
PROPERTIES WINDOW	11
SYNCHRONIZING	14
UPDATE FULL TEXT SEARCH INDICES	16
Practice/Questions	17

Purpose
The section covers the abilities and limitations of a Library Administrator. You will learn about creating and deleting libraries, assigning Rights to Groups, assigning Groups to libraries, adding files to libraries, and assigning workflows to libraries.

LIBRARY ADMINISTRATOR
A Library Administrator is special right assigned by an Adept Admin to a specific user. The Library Administrator right allows the user to create Libraries and modify group rights under a specific branch of the directory tree for libraries in which the user has access rights. This Library Access right applies to the specific Library and to all Libraries below it in the hierarchy.

A Library Administrator can:A Library Administrator cannot:* Create new Libraries
* Synchronize new files
* Delete Libraries
* Assign existing Groups to Libraries
* Assign rights to the Groups
* Assign a Workflow to a Library* Create new Groups
* Create new users
* Modify users in Groups
A Library Administrator will have two additional tabs in the Ribbon: System and Admin
To perform the tasks of a Library Administrator, select the User, Groups, Libraries command to open the Library Administration dialog. Only one Library Administrator may have the Library Administration dialog open at a time.
Tab: System > Administer > Users, Groups, Libraries
Tab: Admin > Manage > Users, Groups, Libraries





LIBRARY TREE VIEW
The Library Tree View, in the left pane of the Library Administration dialog, shows a list of existing libraries. You can explicitly set attributes for Libraries or the Libraries can inherit rights and properties from the library above. Hold the cursor over a Library to display a Tool Tip with a summary of settings for that library.


At the top of the Library pane, select one of four views from the dropdown list to see if the settings for each library (per selected view type) is explicitly set, inherits properties from libraries above, or are not set. Inheritance applies down the tree but stops at the first Library that has been explicitly set with new values.


Library Setting View: Settings for Version depth, Library type, where to find children, FTS. Full color - library with explicitly set properties.
Purple - library inherits properties from library above.
Gray - library for which properties have neither been set nor inherited but use defaults.

Replication View: Shows replication.
Full color - replication is explicitly set.
Purple - library inherits Replication setting from the library above.

Rights View: Determined by the Groups assigned to the library.
Full color - library for which Groups have been added. Purple - library that inherits rights from library above. Gray - library for which no groups have been added.

Workflow View: shows workflow.
Full color - workflow is explicitly set.
Purple - Workflow is inherited from the library above.
Gray - workflow is neither set nor inherited but can use the default Adept workflow if it is a checked library.



Right-click in the Library pane to see a list of actions you can perform:


ADD LIBRARIES
Steps to Add a New Library
1. Select the Users, Groups, Libraries button to open the Library Administrator dialog.
2. Select Add Library from the right-click menu or click the Add Libraries button.
Select the Add Library button in the Library Administration window or right- click in the library pane and select Add Library from the shortcut menu.



3. If you have multiple Vaults, be sure you have the correct Vault selected.
4. Enter or Browse to specify the path for the new library.
When Browsing, a dialog opens to select the path and specify the name of the new library. Select Create and OK.

By default, the Path and Name will be the same.

5. If Library Type is set to Checked, you may also assign a Workflow to the Library:

6. Select other options and select OK. A prompt appears:

If the directory contains existing documents, answer Yes to have the files synchronize to the library or No to synchronize later.
7. Place the cursor over the new Library in the Library Administration window.
Notice the information in the Tool Tip and notice the glyph for the new library is purple. This indicates the new library is inheriting the User Rights from the parent.


Options
PromptInformationVaultSelect the name of the Vault where this Library will be located
PathThe path to the Library is relative to the Vault. The Browse button does not work with an FTP vault if you are not at the server. You must type in the name of the
relative path.
NameThis name is generally the same as the actual folder name, but must be unique if changed. Note cursor is in this field. Entering a name here automatically appends
the Path with the same name.CommentsTo help you track your Libraries, you can store comments or keywords associated
with each LibraryWorkflowChoose the Default Workflow that documents enter when Checked In to this
library. Only available if Library Type is Checked.
Library Settings
PromptInformationNotesInherit Library PropertiesWill use the properties of a parent library in the treeAdministrator cannot make any changes to the
Library SettingsDefine Library PropertiesWill not use properties of a parent library in the treeAdministrator can change
the properties in the Library SettingsAlways Save MajorWhen checked, Adept automatically creates a new version level every time a file returns to
the Library
Major Depth
The number of major versions savedAdept will automatically remove the oldest
version of the file
Save Minor
Adept will save all Minor versions of a file every time a Major version is savedIf unchecked, all Minor versions will be deleted when a Major version is
savedLibrary TypeSelect the security level for libraryWhere to Find
ChildrenAffects where Adept looks for Parts or Xrefs
when a parent is checked outAllow Filtering of ChildrenWhen checked, standard parts will be excluded when using Check Out, Copy
assemblies, Search for Children, or Send ToEnable Full Text
SearchWhen checked, Adept will extract text data
from supported files in this LibraryFull Text Search -
Include VersionsWhen checked, Adept will also extract text
data from all versionsHistory DepthThe number of history records that will be
saved for each documentDisk Safety MarginPrevents writing to a disk that has less room
than the number of megabytes set

PromptInformationNotesReplication
SettingIf library is in AFS (Adept File System) vault,
set options for how this library will replicate
ADD GROUP(S) TO LIBRARY
As a Library Administrator, you can Add any existing Group to a library. If you need additional Groups created, contact your Adept Administrator.

The rights applied to a Group are done on a per library basis. You can set different access rights for the same Group that is assigned to a different library.

Steps to Add a Group to a Library
1. Select the Users, Groups and Libraries command to open the Library Administration dialog window
2. In the left pane, select the new Library
3. In the right pane, review the Groups not in Library by selecting each group name. Notice the users in the selected group appear in the lower left Group list
4. Select one or more Groups you want to add to the Library
Select the Add button and notice the Group is displayed in the Groups in Library.

ASSIGNING LIBRARY ACCESS RIGHTS
As a Library Administrator, you have the ability to Assign Library Access Rights to any existing Groups. Additional Groups can only be created by the Adept Administrator.

Typically, Rights are inherited down the tree until finding a Library that already has a Group assigned to it. The added Group takes priority, and then applies from there down the tree to the next Library that has a group, and so on, down the tree.

Set Rights to a Group
1. Select the Group name in the Groups in Library section, notice the Set Right... button is activated. You could also right-click on a Group in the Groups in Library section and select Set Rights







There are 4 levels of inherited Rights: Viewing, Editing, Workflow Managing, and
Document Managing. Select any additional access rights within each Level.

2. Select the icon button(s) for the type of Rights you want to set.






WARNING: Do not modify the group rights for the group giving you Library Administration rights. Unchecking this option will disable your Library Administration rights.

COPY/PASTE LIBRARY SETTINGS
To help manage Library settings, you can copy the settings from one Library and paste them into another. However, you can only paste to one Library at a time.

1. Select the Library to copy from then right-click and select Copy Library Settings.

   2. Next, select the Library to copy the settings to and right-click to select Paste Library Settings.



PROPERTIES WINDOW
After assigning permissions, you can check settings by right-clicking anywhere in the gray area of the Library Administration window. Then select Properties.

The information displayed in the Properties window will change depending on whether you select a Library, a Group, or a User.

When a Library is selected, the Properties window will also show information about the Workflow assigned to the Library. Any problems will be listed.



Scan Directories
The Scan Dir command creates a new Library for each folder found under the parent folder you specify. This dialog is identical to Add Library except all libraries included in the Scan will inherit the configurations specified.

Scan Directory only creates Libraries. Use Synchronize to add existing documents to the Libraries.

 Best Practice Tip: The Path of a Library plus the length of the longest file name should not exceed 220 characters. To keep paths from growing too long, reduce unnecessary nesting.

1. Select the Vault to be scanned.
2. Select the Admin/System tab > Scan Dir button from the UGLA or right-click in the Library pane and select Scan Directories from the shortcut menu to add an existing folder structure.



Note: If your vault is configured as FTP for all operations, temporarily change it to Direct for all operations before Scan Dir, then change the Vault back to FTP. Or Set the Vault access to FTP for all operations except Copy and View.
      In the dialog, the Starting Library field displays the name of the Library/folder you selected. If the selection is a Library, the settings for

All the directories found in this scan will be listed in the dialog and prepared to be addedas new Libraries.
3. Uncheck the box to the left of any library you want to exclude. When unchecked, the folder is not made into a library, but if it has folders beneath it, the unchecked ones will be kept as a folder.

* A Library symbol (full color) indicates a library already exists in Adept with same path
* A folder symbol indicates a new library will be added to adept
* A Library symbol (gray with dot in upper left) indicates the library already exists in Adept, but with a different path.
4. To rename any duplicate library:


In the Scan Directory dialog list, select a duplicate library and select the Rename Duplicates button.

Note: Renaming a Library changes the Adept Name only and does not change the Windows folder name.
If you attempt to continue without excluding or renaming duplicate library names, an error message will be displayed and the library will not be created.
5. After making the needed changes, select OK to continue. Your new Libraries will appear in the Library pane.
6. A prompt will ask you if you want to synchronize the Libraries just added. Select Yes or No.
Synchronize adds a record for every document in the folder into the Adept

database.
See the Help topic Synchronize for more information.

Your new Libraries will be gray indicating no rights have been assigned. If a Library does not have any rights assigned, Users will have Document Manager rights except Delete, Rename and Move. (See Assigning Library Access Rights above)



SYNCHRONIZING
The Synchronize command scans the selected library folder and adds a record to the Adept database for each document in the folder. This command is typically used when you add a new Library. Select more than one library before select the Synch command to perform a batch synchronize.
	
* When Synchronizing a Library where FTS is enabled, a Full Text Search extraction will also occur for each file that is configured to be extracted for Full Text Search. Should the document fail the text extraction, a message appears with the option to view a log file.


Synch Options
Synchronize All - Typically used when setting up Adept Libraries for the first time. Adept scans all documents in the selected directory. Previous synchronized information will be lost. Any previously stored extraction fields and relationship fields will be recalculated.

Synchronize New - Adept scans only those documents that have never been entered into the Library and will skip those documents that were previously synchronized. This is useful when you copy new documents into a directory at the network document system level (outside the scope of Adept).

Resume - continues synchronization in the event it was interrupted by a document that fails to correctly import. Adept will not try to synchronize the document that failed; instead it will start synchronizing starting with the next document.

Extraction Options
When Synchronizing existing documents, Adept finds any externally referenced documents and assigns a default behavior to the relationship. These options affect the way relationships are handled and displayed. (See online help for more information about Version Locking of Child Document and Relationship Extraction for more information).





UPDATE FULL TEXT SEARCH INDICES
Full Text Search is used to search through all text within supported/configured documents. To be able to do a Full Text Search, all text from the documents must be placed in the Index documents on the server. Text is extracted from documents every time content changes (ex: when you check in a document or when you synchronize a library).

Use the Refresh Full Text Search Indices command to occasionally clean up and refresh the Full Text Search Indexes.

Situations where it is advisable to issue Refresh Full Text Search Indices:
* If the server that holds the FTS indices was offline, documents could have been checked in, without FTS extraction.
* If the FTS option was disabled overall, or for particular Libraries.
* If you have changed the extensions of documents you want to include in FTS, either adding extensions or removing them.
* Periodically in order to clean up and update the Full Text Search Indexes.

In the Library Administration window, right-click in the left pane library tree to select Refresh Full Text Search Indices:


The Refresh Full Text Search Indices command will:
* Extract text from any document that should have been extracted but was not.
* When appropriate, add a new library to the index documents.
* Remove any indexes that are no longer needed. (ex: if you removed an extension from the list)
* Resolve matches between all documents and all FTS indexes.


Practice/Questions
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 17, which is included alongside this document.


Adept









PERSONAL GROUPS,
CIRCLES, AND SHARING























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Personal Groups	3
Create a Personal Group	3
Share a Personal Group	5
Circles	6
Sharing	7
Share Manager	7
Inbox	10
Inbox Leaves	10
View the Inbox of Other Users	11
Practice/Questions	11

PURPOSE
In Adept you can personalize and share a variety of feature objects. Rather than selecting users each time you want to share an object, you can create and use Personal Groups or use a feature in Adept known as a Circle of users. This section describes how to create Personal Groups and use Personal Groups and your Circle to easily and quickly share objects in Adept. This section also describes viewing the Inboxes of other Users.

PERSONAL GROUPS
A Personal Group is a type of object that includes a specific set of users with whom you want to share objects.
* Personal Groups can be created by Users or Adept Administrators.
* You can share many types of objects with your personal groups or with individuals.
* These objects may be saved column sets, lists of favorites, saved searches, custom ribbon sets, reports, templates, library sets, personal groups, Audit Trail report templates, Transmittal templates, Transmittal search, Workflows, and Work Areas.
* When you share objects with another user, you are granting the other user the ability to use (and optionally share and modify) the object.
* Your Personal Groups can be shared using the Share Manager.
* Objects shared with you may or may not allow you to Edit and Share with others.
* Owners of objects can transfer ownership to other users.
* Objects can only be Unshared by the Owner.
* Personal groups may also determine who appears in your Inbox.

Create a Personal Group
There are several ways to create a Personal Group:

Edit tab > Personal Groups panel > New or Edit




Collaborate tab > Sharing panel > Share Manager


Select the Users to be included in the Personal Group. In the right-panel you can double-click on a User Name to have it included in the Personal Group or select multiple names and select the left arrow.


Use the right arrow to move users from the Included pane to the Excluded pane.


Note: The Adept Administrator enables Circles

After the Personal Group is created, use the Edit or Share Manager commands to:
* Modify the list of users in the Personal Group
* Share/Unshare the Personal Group with others
* Edit or Delete the Personal Group
* Transfer the Ownership from yourself to a different user.
Note: If ownership is transferred without sharing the object with yourself, you could lose access to the list.
* Create a New Personal Group


The Adept Admin can create a Personal Groups from existing Library Access Groups.
1. From the Admin tab or System tab, select Users, Groups, Libraries to open the Library Administration dialog.
2. Right-click on a Group from the Groups in Library pane or Groups not in Library pane


3. Select Personal Group from Group

4. Enter a name for the Personal Group.
Select New Group and OK to exit the Library Administration dialog. Open the Share Manager window to see the new Group.

Share a Personal Group
When you share a Personal Group with another user, you are granting the other user the ability to view and use (and optionally share and modify) that Personal Group.
1. In the Share Manager, select the Personal Group you want to Share and select Share.
2. In the Share Personal Group dialog, select the User(s) or Group(s) of Users.



3. To modify the rights for Personal Groups you have shared with others, open the Share Manager. Right-click on the personal group and check the desired options. Select OK when finished.


CIRCLES
There are several features in Adept where dialog boxes will prompt you to select from a list of Users. For example:
* when assigning a document for review.
* when you Share objects such as Column Sets, Ribbon sets, Favorites, Saved Searches, etc. with other Users.

In many situations, such as when assigning a document for review, Adept limits the list of Users you have to choose from based on their rights to participate in an operation.

In other situations, such as Sharing objects, Adept does not limit based on rights and you can Share with anyone in your company that has Adept access. Therefore, the length of the User lists you have to choose from could be quite large if there a lot of Adept Users in your company.

To make the selection of Users easier, Adept has a concept of Circles.
* An Adept Admin can turn on an option to Enable Adept User Circles
* Each User can have and use an Adept Circle
* Each Adept User's Circle is a list of Users consisting of:
Ł All members of any Library Access Group in which the User is also a member, plus
Ł All members of Personal Groups in which the User is also a member


* When the Circle feature is enabled, the dropdown list in Sharing can be limited to the users in the user's circles.
Example: Martin is a member of Library Access Group CAD Managers with Chris, Janet, and Adam. Martin is also a member of Personal Group MartinLocal with Chloe and Chris. In this situation, Martin's User Circle will consist of all the members of CAD Managers plus all the members of MartinLocal. Typically the number of members in the User Circle will be a lot fewer than the list of users for the whole Adept site. When Chris Shares an object and checks the box to Only show Users from my Circle, the dialog is limited to the 4 users (Adam, Chris, Janet, and Chloe). When the Circles box is unchecked, Martin would see every user in Adept.

Note: The System Administrator must Enable User Circles in Adept Options > User Circles Option dialog.

SHARING
Adept enables you to create various personalized objects. For example:
* create your own Column Sets to determine what information you display in the Search Results, Work Area and FileGuide windows.
* create Favorite Lists in which you accumulate lists of documents.
* create Library Sets to restrict your views to certain Libraries.
In addition to using these personalized objects yourself, you can share these objects with other users, to provide others in your organization the benefit of the objects you created.

Share Manager
The Share Manager feature gives you the ability to share a number of objects with one or more users. The Shared object always adheres to the Library Access Rights. No User can give other users rights to see documents they are not already entitled to view.
1. Open the Share Manager

Tab: Collaborate tab > Sharing panel > Share Manager


2. Select the type of object you want to share from the dropdown menu.

3. Select an object from the list and select Share...

At the bottom of the Share Manager dialog, you can see who you have shared the selected object with and what rights they have.


4. In the Share dialog window, the object you are about to Share is shown at the top. Choose the User(s) you want to share with from the full list of User(s) or check the box to Only show Users from my Circle to select from a specific set of Users.

5. To modify the rights each User has for the shared object, right-click on the User in the left pane to check or uncheck the option to Allow Editing and/or Allow Sharing of the object.

Allow Editing
When checked, the recipient has the right to change the contents of the object. For example, if you grant edit rights to a shared Favorite List, the recipient has the right to add records to the Favorite list or remove them from the list.

Allow Sharing
When checked, the recipient can share the object with other users.
6. Select OK when finished setting these rights.
Note: the defaults settings for these rights set in the Adept Options > User Display



The Share Manager also allows you to:
* UnShare an object (you must be the owner to UnShare).
* Transfer Ownership to another user (you must be the owner to transfer ownership). Note: If you transfer ownership without sharing the object with yourself, you could lose access to the object.
* Toggle to Show or Hide the Object.
* Delete a selected object you own. The Delete command is disabled if you are not the owner.


INBOX
The Inbox is a special view of work that is Assigned or Checked Out to you.

Tab: Home > Windows > Inbox
Tab: View > Document Windows > Inbox
Status Bar: InboxIf documents have been Assigned to you or if there is a document in a Workflow for you to review, your Inbox symbol will change.
Inbox Leaves
In the left pane, select each category to see the list of documents for each type. Select your login to see a list of everything in your Inbox.



View the Inbox of Other Users
* Right-click in the left pane of the Inbox dialog window and select Inbox Membership.

* Decide if you want to only choose users in your Circle or choose from all users.

* Double-click on the User(s) for which you want to view their Inbox and select OK when finished. You could also select the user(s) and click the left arrow button (<	) to
Include their Inbox.

To add, change, or remove users from your Inbox view, right click on the Inbox tree and select Inbox Membership.

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 18, which is included alongside this document.


Adept










REPORTS


























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Print List	3
Print the contents of an Adept window	3
Print a list of parts in an Assembly	3
Save as Text	4
Export to Excel	5
Reports	6
Quick Reports	7
Create a Quick Report	7
Report Template Manager	8
Edit Existing Template	8
Copy and Edit a Template	8
Design a Template	9
Share Template	13
Generate Report with Selected Template	14
Report Preview	14
Practice/Questions	16


PURPOSE
Adept provides many ways to create Reports for a variety of reasons. This section covers how to output data from Adept windows into a formatted Report. In addition, you will learn how to create custom Report Templates. These reports can be generated by Adept Users or Adept Administrators. Later you will learn about additional built-in Reports that are generated only by Adept Administrators.

PRINT LIST
You can print the contents of a Search Results, FileGuide or Work Area window to any installed printer from the Collaborate tab.
Also: Ctrl+P
Tab: Collaborate > Reports > Print List



Print the contents of an Adept window
* Modify the columns (add, remove, reorganize) to display the information you want in your report.
* Highlight the Adept window (Search Results, FileGuide, or Work Area) to print by clicking the mouse on the title bar of the window.
* Choose Print List from the Collaborate tab, Reports panel in the Adept ribbon.
* Click the Print button. A standard Windows dialog box asks for the printer you wish to use, number of copies, which pages to print, etc.
* When printing or saving to a file, the Reports will appear similar to:


Note: you are limited to the print area of the paper selected, any data that would print outside of this area is truncated.

Print a list of parts in an Assembly
* In the Document Dashboard, select Children tab
* Right-click in the right pane of the Document Dashboard
* Select Print List



The output is similar to:

SAVE AS TEXT
The Save As Text command is one of the fastest ways of exporting a list of metadata. It will save the current contents of any Adept window to a tab delimited text file. From the Collaborate tab, Data ribbon panel, select Save As Text


Enter a file name and location:


After selecting Save, a window will display the saved file. Note that this report includes both the System and Display names for the fields. This data can quickly be copied into Excel to be modified.


As with Print List, the data in the report matches the colums displayed in the active panel.


EXPORT TO EXCEL
When exporting to Excel, you must first select the files to be included. However, you are not limited to the columns in your display.

Select Collaborate > Data > Export to Excel


In the upper left, you can toggle between two Header options, Show Main and Show All, by right-clicking anywhere in the Header pane.

Main:	All:










In the lower left pane, you will have other right-click options:




In the lower right pane, you will also have right-click options. This is where you will be adding fields to be included in your report. Either drag and drop fields between the left and right panes or select Add/Remove from the right-click menu.


Use Alias
Many of Adepts fields contain a GUID for long term data tracking. This value is rarely of use to a user, so each value also has an Alias. A Yes or No in the Use Alias column determines what value will be shown for that field. Change any aliased field to Yes to display user friendly data.

Save Export File
* To save different export lists, select File > Save/Save As.
* To use an existing export list, select File > Open.
* Click Export to generate your Excel report based on your field selection.

Note: The Excel PlugIn must be enabled and Microsoft Office 2003 or later must be installed on the user's workstation for this feature to be available.

REPORTS
When generating reports:
* Use the default template shipped with Adept or design and use your own templates.
* Print the Report to a printer (print or save to a file).
* From a Preview window, choose the type of output from the Preview toolbar (when using Quick Reports or Generate).
* Save the Report to disk as a PDF, CSV, or other document format.
* Send the Report as an attachment via email.


The commands to create a Report:

Collaborate tab, Reports panel



* Print List - Prints the list of files as displayed in a Search Results, FileGuide, Work Area Window, Index, Library Browser, or Document Dashboard to a printer or to a file as set using Print Setup
* Quick Report - Portrait/Landscape - generates a preview report using a default template shipped with Adept or using a formatted template typically created by the Adept Admin and defined as the default template for Quick Reports. The information contained in the report is based on fields you have currently displaying in the Adept Window.
* Generate - Generates a report using a custom template you previously created or one that was shared with you by another user or an Adept Admin.
Report templates can be created by a User or an Admin using the Report Template Manager.
Note: If there are no templates created, users must use the default Quick Portrait or Quick Landscape commands.

QUICK REPORTS
When you select Quick Report, Adept will generate a report based on fields you are currently displaying in the Adept window. You can select either portrait or landscape mode. The Quick Report command then populates the data from the Adept window into a formatted template and displays the results in a Preview window.


Create a Quick Report
* Obtain a list of files in a Search Results, FileGuide, Work Area Window, etc.
* Choose the Quick Report icon for either Portrait or Landscape.
* View the Preview Report.
* From the Preview toolbar: Print, Save, Export, or Email the document.



REPORT TEMPLATE MANAGER
To create new templates for formatted reports, use the Reports Template Manager. You can Add, Edit, Copy, Rename, or Delete templates. Report Template Manager allows you select from the templates you created or were Shared with you.

Edit tab > Reports panel > Template Manager


Edit Existing Template
Ł Select a Template
Ł Select Edit to open the Template Designer

Copy and Edit a Template
Ł Select a Template and select Copy.

Ł Select the Copy from the list and select Rename.
Ł Select Edit to make changes to the copy. Remember to Save your changes.


Design a Template
It is helpful to first think about, and sketch, what you want to appear on the form.
1. In the Report Template Manager dialog, select Add to begin building a Template or select an existing report and select Copy, then Edit the copy.

2. Enter a Template Name and choose the type of template you want to create:
Ł File Table Template - used to report on documents listed in the FileGuide, Search Results, and Work Area windows.
Ł Audit Trail Template (Adept Admins Only) - used when viewing results of an Audit Trail search.
3. Select Design.

4. Enter information into the Headers, Footers, and Detail sections. Then add Fields to be displayed for each document listed in the Report.




Template Bands
The Report Template is organized in horizontal bands that contain information about the Report (for example the date it was printed), and about the details of each of the files in the list. You can add or remove bands by right-click in the template area:

Header and Footer
The Header and Footer bands contain fields and data that apply to the entire report and will repeat on each page.


Report Header (Detail):
This information only appears on the first page of the Report.

Files_Details and Header for Files_Details
Displays information for each document listed in the report. Anything you can search for in database, you can include in the report.

To add a Field Column to the report template, drag a field from the Field List in the upper right pane of the Template Designer and drop it into the Files_Details band. The header for the chosen field is automatically added to the Header_for_Files_Details column in the Template. You may wish to delete this automatic header and manually add your own label.
	

When designing the Template, you will construct one row of details. When the Report or Transmittal Report is actually run, this row will be expanded to include one row of data for each file listed in the Adept window you selected or for each file you attach to the Transmittal.

 Best Practice Tip: The Files_Details Band is repeated for every file in your Report/Transmittal.
Include only Fields here. Do not include pictures, labels, or other controls. Any space you leave in
the Detail Band will be repeated. Squeeze the form designer tight against the fields to eliminate unwanted space.

Report Template Toolbar (Standard Controls)
On the left side of the Editing Report Template dialog is a Toolbar that allows you to add text labels, pictures, tables, checkboxes, shapes, lines, barcodes, charts, etc. At the top of the dialog is a Toolbar to save, cut/paste, copy, alignment objects, modify formats (fonts and layout), etc.


Example of building a report template



SHARE TEMPLATE
When a user creates a Report template, it is only available to that user. The user must Share the template with other users in order for them to use that template. The user who created the template can allow others to view (run report), edit or share to others.

1. In the Report Template Manager, select the template to be shared and click Share.

2. Choose the users you wish to share with and assign share rights with these users. Choose Share with ALL Users (View Only) or select Users or Groups from the right pane.

3. Select OK and Close when you are finished.


GENERATE REPORT WITH SELECTED TEMPLATE
Select the Results Window, FileGuide, or Work Area. Invoke Generate.

Collaborate tab > Reports panel > Generate


Select the template you want to use.


Report Preview
Adept generates the report and displays the result in a preview window. Examine the report, print a hard copy, Save it to disk, Export it to a file type, or send it in an email.

From the Preview windows, select Export Document from the File menu to select the file type to save the report. Each file type has additional Export Options.

Then close the preview. You cannot return to Adept until you dismiss this window.




From the Background menu, you can edit the background color of the report by selecting Color


Add a Watermark by selecting Watermark from the Background menu.





PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 19, which is included alongside this document.


Adept









ADMINISTRATION: DESIGNER























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Designer Overview	3
Accessing the Adept Designer	3
Preparing to Use Designer	4
Using Designer	5
File menu	5
Export in Designer/ Package Database	6
Restore/Import a Database in Designer	7
Create New Database	8
Open Existing Database	9
Saving Changes to Database	9
Saving Changes to Design File (to apply later)	9
Apply the Design File Changes	10
Database Editor	11
Database Field types	11
Create a New Field	12
Data Card Editor	13
Create a New Data Card	14
Copy Data Card Page	15
FileGuide Editor	15
Create New FileGuide View	16
Upgrade utility	17
DESIGNER UTILITIES	18
Practice/Questions	18


PURPOSE
This section describes how the Adept Designer application that is used by Adept Administrators to:
* Create and manage databases
* Create and modify custom fields
* Create and modify Data Cards
* Create and modify FileGuide Views
* Backup and restore databases
* Migrate databases to a new release

DESIGNER OVERVIEW
Accessing the Adept Designer

The Designer window:


When changes are saved in Designer, the users will see those changes after logging back into Adept.

 Cascade or Tile Windows
Note: These buttons are active create a new database or opening an existing database.


The Designer consists of four tools and other utilities:
Database EditorAdd, Modify, and Delete custom fields in the database and create
new databasesData Card EditorAdd, Modify, and Delete contents of Data Cards and manage Data
CardsFileGuide EditorCreate, Modify, or Delete hierarchical views for the FileGuideUpgrade UtilityConvert databases from previous versions of AdeptOther UtilitiesClear logins, Clear History, Purge History to Depth, Manage Audit Trail, Clear ADM Password, Repair Database, Restore Procedures
and Functions
PREPARING TO USE DESIGNER
When using Adept Designer to create or modify database fields or delete anything (ex. Fields, Data Cards, or FileGuide Views), you should first:
* Create a Backup of your Database (after opening or creating a database)
Ł In SQL, Backup a Database
Ł From Desktop, Package Databases
Ł In Adept Designer, File > Export
* Lock Adept System for Maintenance

* Stop the Adept Services

Locking the system and stopping the service is required when:
Ł Creating or editing database fields
Ł Deleting anything - Data Cards or FileGuide Views

Some changes do NOT require locking the system and stopping the service.
Ł Adding fields to Data Cards
Ł Moving fields within a Data Card
Ł Creating new FileGuide Views


USING DESIGNER
Make changes during the Designer session:
* Lock System for Maintenance to make sure no one is logged in.
* Close your session of Adept
* Stop Adept Service
* Run Designer and open your Adept database
* Click Yes to the message "Do you want to backup your database now?"
* Make desired changes
* Save those changes
* Exit Designer
* Start Adept Service
* Unlock Adept System

File menu
Access commands and utilities to Create and Open Databases, Export and Import a Database, Upgrade a Database and Remove older Adept Database Tables, Clear Logins and History, Manage the Audit Trail, and more:


Export in Designer/ Package Database
An Adept Administrator can create a self-extracting snapshot of a database as a backup by selecting Package Databases or File > Export within Designer.
	
The default location is of the backup file is C:\Adept\Backup and the output file name is automatically named with the date and time (ex: Adeptfm110Db_06-28-19_04-24PM.zip). Note: you always want to include the file template and memo tables unless Helpdesk asks you to skip them for troubleshooting purposes.

Note: PackageDatabases.exe can be run, with parameters, in a batch file. This executable is located in C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Utilities. See Export in online Help.


Restore/Import a Database in Designer
This brings the databases you created with Export or with Package Databases into Adept and translates them to the current version of Adept.

Import is similar to the Migration function, but uses a copy of the current database to:
Ł restore a previous Package Database backup if the current database becomes corrupt.
Ł move from one of the supported SQL databases to another.
Ł locate the latest backup of your database.
Ł extract the database files from the backup ZIP.

Note: Use with Caution. It is possible to overwrite your existing tables.

Restore/Import a database:
* Extract the Package Database zip file into an empty directory.
* Open Designer and select File > Import.
* Enter information. In the Import directory field, browse to the Windows folder where the package was extracted.

* Select Import.
* Exit Designer when Import is complete.
* Start the Adept service and Unlock the Adept System.


CREATE NEW DATABASE
Typically, you will only create a new database for a new Adept installation.

A New Adept implementation starts with either a New Blank database or with an Adept Template to pre-create Fields, Data Cards, and FileGuide views.

Blank:	Select File> New> New (blank) Adept Database
Creates a blank Adept database. You create custom fields, FileGuide Views and Data Cards. Specify the SQL Database information and select Create to have Designer create the new Adept table structure into your database.


From Template:	Select File> New> New Adept Database from Template
Creates a new Adept database based on a Template. Select from a list of templates that contain predefined custom fields, FileGuideViews, and Data Cards. Then specify the SQL Database information and select Create to have Designer create the new Adept table structure into your database.

You can create your own template using File > Save As

Caution: Be careful when you use the Designer New command. This command will overwrite an existing database.



OPEN EXISTING DATABASE
In order to view or modify an active Database, you must first open the Database.
File > Open > Open Adept Database


If you have not locked the system and stopped the service, you will see the following message. You will not be able to make any changes in the Database Editor.


As you make changes in the Designer, you will have the ability to save all changes directly to the database or to a Design file (.des).

Saving Changes to Database
If the system is locked and the service is stopped, you can save all changes directly to the database. There are 3 ways to save changes and overwrite your working database:
File > Save
File > Save as Adept Database
Select the Save icon	

Saving Changes to Design File (to apply later)
If the system is not locked and the service is not stopped, you have the option of saving to the database or to a Design File. The option you choose depends on the type and number of changes


you are made. A Design File (.des) stores the database structure without overwriting the Adept working database.

To avoid making changes to the database while users are active in Adept, save the changes to a Designer file and apply them at a later time when you can stop the service:

File > Save As > Save as Design/Template File ...

Note: When you save a DES file, Designer creates additional support files (FM110PLUGIN.dbf, FM110PLUGIN.ftp, FM110RESTR.cdx, FM110RESTR.dbf)
After opening the DES file and saving to the database, these temporary files can be deleted. Note: Do not delete database fields while using a DES file, deletion of fields must be made on the live database.

Apply the Design File Changes
When you are ready to apply the changes saved in the .des file back to the database and make them available to users:
* Lock System for Maintenance to make sure no one is logged in.
* Close your session of Adept.
* Stop Adept Service.
* Backup your existing database!
* Open Designer and Open the Design file.
* Select File > Open > Open Design File...
* Select File > Save as Adept Database.
File > Save As > Save as Adept Database
* Exit Designer.
* Start Adept Service.
* Unlock database.



DATABASE EDITOR
The Database Editor shows all existing database fields (max. 900). You can add a New Field, Delete or Modify an existing Field.


Database Field types
System Fields
* Automatically included in every Adept database (38).
* Can be added to Data Cards.
* Can be shown in file list window (ex: Search Results, Library Browser, FileGuide Views).
* Cannot change or delete system fields - except for Filename (S_LONGNAME) You can increase the width at any time but be careful when reducing the width.
Reducing the size could cut off existing file name entries in Adept and damage the links between the database and your files. The width of this field can be up to 240 characters. Adept catches files with names longer than this width and asks to rename the file. Width includes the dot and three letter extension.

Custom
* Admins can Add or Delete a Custom field.
* Change the width, type, or display name of a Custom field.
* Can be of type:
Ł Character (any alpha/numeric character)
Ł Numeric (only numbers; up to 20 including numbers after decimal point)
Ł Date (8-character field that contains a date)
Ł Logical (one character field that can have either T (true) or F (false) value


Extraction - can be extracted from a file.
* attributes from Autodesk DWG files.
* properties from SOLIDWORKS and Inventor files.
* properties from Word or Excel
Note: Field Characteristic is set within the Desktop Client.

Restricted Value - restricted to allow input from a list of choices that you specify.
Note: Field Characteristic is set within the Desktop Client.

Memo
* every record in Adept can have one memo field.
* can contain text information and may hold up to 64K characters.
* are accessed in in the Memo tab on the Data Card.

Protected - only edited by users with Library Access Right to Edit Protected Fields.
Note: Field Characteristic is set within the Desktop Client.

Indexed - search is faster on indexed fields.
* Can have up to 15 indexed fields.
* Filename always indexed.
* First leaf in each FileGuide View is automatically indexed.

Create a New Field
1. In the Database Editor window click New Field.

2. Select the Field Type (character, date, numeric, logical).
3. Enter a Field Name - can be up to 10 alpha/numeric characters with no spaces.
The underline is the only special character allowed. To help sort the field type and as a reminder, you can optionally prefix each field:
C_ = Character D_ = Date
L_ = Logical N_ = Numeric


4. Enter in a Display Name.
Descriptive name up to 32 characters. This is the field name that will appear on a Search/Data Card and the column heading in display windows.
5. Decide if this field will be Indexed.
When a field is indexed, the database stores pre-sorted pointers for the information in that field to make searches faster.
The first leaf in each FileGuide View is automatically indexed.

DATA CARD EDITOR
A Data Card is an on-screen form that displays information from the database. This same form is used to search.

You can create up to 8 Data Cards, with 8 tabs each, plus Memo and Thumbnail tabs.

Note: The 3 boxes labeled 640x480, 800x600 and 1024x768 are for reference only. The actual size of your Data card is determined by the placement of your fields.


Create a New Data Card
1. From the Available Data Cards list, select the next available 'x.Untitled' then select the Edit Title button to give your new card a descriptive name.
2. Select Tab 1 then click the Edit Tab button to give this tab a descriptive name.
3. From The Available Database Fields list, select the field you want to display on this tab of your card. Note the cursor changes to a box.

4. Drag the field into the card and left-click to 'drop' the field onto the card. Once placed, the field and description can be moved individually as needed.
5. Repeat 3 & 4 to add other fields.
6. Add Library field (choose one):
Library: The Library name that Adept will display (must be unique across entire database).
Library Path: The path you specify for the Library is relative to the Vault.

Library Folder: The actual Windows folder name for this Library.
7. Add Text to a data card - the maximum text length is 32 characters.

8. Then Save the Data Card.


Copy Data Card Page
Copies content of one Data Card page to another Data Card page.
1. In a Data Card, create a new page/tab (leave it blank). This is the page you want to receive the copied information.
2. While on this Data Card, Select Copy Page
3. Then select an existing page (Data Card/tab) from the pulldown list. This will be the data card page/tab that you want to copy to your new page/tab.

Note: You have the option to Clear the current page when pasting in the page you choose.
4. Save the new content to this page. Close the Data Card Editor when you are finished editing the Data Card.

FILEGUIDE EDITOR
Use the FileGuide to create custom views based on how you want to see your data. You can create up to 32 custom FileGuide views.

Each view displays a tree based on the values in a database field. This tree allows a user to display and select files without searching.


Create New FileGuide View
1. Select the next View xx: Untitled from the Available Views list then use Edit Title to give it a descriptive title.

2. Then select the appropriate fields from the Available Fields list on the right and select Add.

3. Use the Up and Down buttons to move the fields in the leaf up and down. Remove a field and add a different field to the leaf.

Note: When creating a FileGuide View, be aware of how the field will be used. Do NOT use a first level field that would contain unique values (ex. Filename).


UPGRADE UTILITY
The Upgrade Utility is run when upgrading the Adept software to a newer version (ex: Adept 2017 to Adept 2018). When you run Upgrade, Adept generates a new set of tables for the newest release without changing the existing Adept tables.

To Upgrade the Database:
* Lock the System, Stop the Adept Services, and create a backup of the database (an SQL backup is best).
* In Designer, select the upgrade option based on the version to are upgrading from and the version you are upgrading to (ex. 2017 to 11.0.5).
* Be sure the information to connect to the database is accurate and select Upgrade.


Server Name: the name of your server hosting the Adept database.

Database for Upgraded Tables: the name of the database where the upgraded tables are to be placed. Typically, this is the same database name as where the existing tables reside. If not using the same database, you must first create a new database in SQL before performing the upgrade.

Database with Existing Tables: the name of the database where your existing Adept database tables reside (typically the same as the database for the upgraded tables).

User Name and Password: the user name that has full rights access to the Adept database.

Database Type: Select the database you are upgrading (typically Microsoft SQL).


Note: When you are satisfied with the upgrade of the database, you can then use the Remove Utility to delete the older Adept tables from the Data Source.

In Designer, select File > Upgrade > Remove xxxx Tables...

DESIGNER UTILITIES
There are 7 utilities used by the Adept Administrator to perform a variety of maintenance functions. In the Designer, Open the Database the select File > Utilities

NOTE: The Designer Utilities are covered in a later section: Administration Additional Features.

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 20, which is included alongside this document.


Adept













ADMINISTRATOR























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0


Table of Contents
Adept Administrator Role	3
Users, Groups, Libraries	3
Import Users from Windows Active Directory	4
Importing Groups from Windows Active Directory	5
Manually Add User	7
Administration Types	8
Adept Client User Types	9
Other Permissions	10
Manually Add Groups	10
Practice/Questions	10
Vaults	11
Adding a Vault	11
Edit a Vault	11
Delete a Vault (only empty vaults)	11
Adept File System (AFS) Vault	12
FTP Vaults	13
FTP for all operations except Copy and View	13
FTP for all operations	14
Direct for all operations	14
Scan Directories	15
Managing Libraries	17
Create a New Library	17
Add Groups to Libraries	17
Assigning Library Access Rights	17
Set Rights to a Group	17
Copy/Paste Library Settings	19
Practice/Questions	19
Properties Window	20
Library Tree View	21
Rights View	21
Workflow View	22
Replication View	22
Batch Editing Libraries	23
Database Fields	24
PlugIns	25
PlugIn Administration and Configuration	26
AutoCAD	27
Inventor	27
SolidWorks	27
MicroStation	27
General Options	28
SolidWorks Only	28
Mapping to database fields	29
Properties	30
Excel and Word	30
Windows Images	30
XML Properties	31
Synchronize	32
Specialized Searches	33
Search for Files with Unresolved Relationships	33
Search for Duplicate File Names	33
Document Templates, Open Applications and Document Types	34
Document Templates	34
Open Applications	35
Alternate Configuration	36
Document Types	36
Practice/Questions	38


ADEPT ADMINISTRATOR ROLE
* Install/Update
* Configuration
* Access and Rights
* Users, Groups, Libraries, Data Sources
* Workflows
* Shared Work Areas
* Transmittals Configuration
* Templates, Reports
* User Training
* Backups and Maintenance
* Liaison between Users and Adept Support

USERS, GROUPS, LIBRARIES
Tab: System > Administer > Users, Groups, Libraries
Tab: Admin > Manage > Users, Groups, Libraries


The Adept Administrator has access to every part of the Adept environment.



From this Library Administration window you can:
Ł Create, edit and disable Adept users
Ł Create, edit and delete Adept Library Access Groups
Ł Create, edit and delete Adept Vaults
Ł Assign access rights to libraries by adding groups
Ł Add, edit, or delete Libraries
Ł Assign Workflow to a Library, or a document
Note: Only one Adept Administrator may have the UGLA open at a time. Subsequent attempts will receive a message.

IMPORT USERS FROM WINDOWS ACTIVE DIRECTORY
1. Right-click in the Users not in group window.
2. Select Active Directory > Import Users.
3. Select Advanced.

4. Select Object Types: User, Groups, or both.
5. Check Users and uncheck Groups and click OK.

6. Click Locations, select your Domain and click OK.
7. Click Find Now to create a list of available users.
8. Select the users to be imported into Adept and click OK.


9. Click OK to continue.

10. Review list then click OK to add names to Adept user list.

11. Open each User Profile to set the appropriate options.

  Left-facing, red shirt, indicates this user is Linked to an Active Directory account.
Note: If it is necessary to change an imported user name, the name must be changed in Active Directory first, and then imported again. Changes cannot be made in Adept.

IMPORTING GROUPS FROM WINDOWS ACTIVE DIRECTORY
* Before importing Groups, you must first add all the users.
* When you import a Group, Windows will only include users already imported into Adept.
* When you add a group, users that have not been added will be identified by <must add first>
and will not be associated with the group at this time.
* If you add users to a Group later, you must re-import the Group.


The Steps to import Groups is similar to importing Users:
1. Right-click in the Users not in Group window.
2. Select Active Directory > Import Groups.

3. Click Advanced.
4. Click Object Types. Check Groups and uncheck Users. Click OK.
5. Click Locations and select your Domain. Click OK.
6. Click Find Now to create a list of available Groups.

7. Select the Groups to be imported into Adept and Click OK.



8. Click OK to continue.

9. Click OK to add groups to an Adept Groups list.

Two people facing left, red shirts, yellow arrow indicates Group is Linked to an Active Directory Group.

MANUALLY ADD USER
Click the Add user button or right-click in the User not in Group pane and select Add User. Right-facing, blue shirt indicates a manually created user (not an Active Directory user).
	




PromptInformationNotes
User NameCan be up to 64 characters. Appears in Owner, Last Owner and Approver fields.Users imported from Active Directory, the User Name cannot be edited.

Login ID

Can be up to 20 characters.Users imported from Active Directory, the Login ID cannot
be edited.The characters ^?;:!#$%&*()
may not be used.
PasswordCan be up to 20 characters - no spaces.Users imported from Active Directory, the Password cannot be edited.
Email AddressUsed to notify user during Assign, Workflow or
Workflow Alerts.Full email addresses must be entered. i.e.
person@synergis.comActive Directory
DomainIf User is imported from Active Directory, lists that
user's Domain.
Import ButtonOpens Windows Active
Directory to import Users or Groups.
Administration Types
PromptInformation
AdministratorThis user is an Adept administrator.
Adept Administrators have full access rights to everything in Adept.
Workflow AdministratorThis user has the right to create, edit, and delete Workflows.Shared Work Area
AdministratorThis user has the right to create and administer
Shared Work Areas.Transmittal
AdministratorThis user has the right to create, edit and manage
Transmittals, Company, CC List and Jobs.

Adept Client User Types
Note: An Adept Client Type must be set in each Adept User's profile. Otherwise, the user will not be able to log into Adept.
PromptInformationNotesAdept DesktopUser is able to use the Adept Desktop.User can only log into the Adept Desktop or Adept Task
Pane.

Adept CreatorUser is able to use an Adept Creator which includes all commands that Adept Reviewer users have and also allows Check In/Out as well as approval.Adept Creator Licenses must be purchased.Check Plug-In support for Adept Creator as not all Plug- Ins are supported.
Adept ReviewerThis user can perform all commands as Adept Explorer as well as the commands for Workflow and can edit
metadata on a Data Card.Adept Reviewer licenses must
be purchased.Check Plug-In support for
Adept Reviewer as not all Plug- Ins are supported.Adept ExplorerThis is the default client type.
Adept Explorer allows users to search, view and print.Adept Explorer Licenses must
be purchased (default when adding a new user).





Clear Client button

Selecting this button clears any changes you made to the Adept Client Type and the Other Permissions sections in the current dialog session. The settings return to the state as when the dialog was opened.
This allows you go back to the current settings or select new settings before selecting OK to save the changes.When Adding a New User, the Adept Client Type is set to Explorer by default. If you select Clear Client but do not designate an Adept Client Type before selecting OK in the dialog, the user will not be able to log into Adept. When they attempt to log into Adept a message indicates "Login is not a Desktop User" or "Login not configured as a valid licensed type". In the UGLA and some
Adept Admin reports, the user will show as <Not Set>.

Other Permissions
PromptInformationNotes
Choose Data CardWhen checked, user may select any configured Data
Card.If Choose Data Card is unchecked, user is restricted to
the selected card.ArchiverUser has Adept Archive
Rights


Locked License

Reserves a license for this user.Each locked license reduces the number of available concurrent licenses.
Note: For any client type that you have Named Licenses for you must check the Locked License for
that user.
MANUALLY ADD GROUPS
Click the Add Group button or right-click in the Groups not in Library pane and select Add Group from the shortcut menu.

Groups are used to identify users that will have the same rights to a library.

  Indicates a manually entered Adept Group

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 21, which is included alongside this document.


VAULTS
All Libraries must be in a Vault. You may have several Vaults in different areas of your network or accessible through the internet using FTP or AFS. Each Library is a subdirectory under the Vault directory. Users must have appropriate LAN/WAN network rights to each library in a Vault.

Select the Vaults button or right-click anywhere in the right pane and select Vault Editor from the shortcut menu. The Vault Administration window dialog box appears. Notice you can Add, Edit, or Delete Vaults.

Types of Vaults:
* Adept File System (AFS) - most common
AFS is a secure inter-computer communication system that allows Adept to manage Replication across multiple AFS servers. AFS can be used even if not replicating.
* FTP - The Vault is accessed using the FTP protocol. The Host computer must be running FTP Services. You can set up an FTP server on your local network. There are two types of FTP vault setups:
All operations - Adept only accesses documents through FTP.
All operations except Copy and View - Copy and View access is allowed across the LAN/WAN. All other operations must be done through the FTP port.
* Direct - For this type of Vault, Adept communicates with the Vault across the LAN/WAN. It does not use any FTP ports to administer documents in this Vault. Users need read/write access to the network folders that contain their libraries.

Adding a Vault
1. Select the Vaults command in the Library Administration window and select Add.
2. Enter the Display Name for the new Vault.
3. Select the Access option and for the type of Vault.
4. Enter the information required for the type of Vault you chose and select OK.

Edit a Vault
1. Select the Vaults command in the Library Administration window and select Edit.
2. In the Vault Profile dialog, make the appropriate changes, and select OK.

Delete a Vault (only empty vaults)
1. Select the Vaults command in the Library Administration window and select Edit.
2. Select the Vault(s) to be deleted.
3. Select Delete.



Adept File System (AFS) Vault
* An inter-computer communication system that works similarly to Adept FTP vaults.
* Supports centralized data storage.
* AFS allows Replication across multiple AFS servers.
* Keeps documents closer to users (quicker check in and document retrieval).
* Redundant data storage for Disaster Recovery.
* Documents are automatically replicated, on a schedule you determine, so that the latest version is available on the Vault geographically closest to the user.

* To implement Replication
Ł Install AFS Server on Hub server.
Note: There can only be one Hub server.
Ł Install AFS Server on each Satellite server where files will be replicated to.
Ł Set the Vault in Adept as an AFS Vault.
Ł Each library in an AFS Vault can be set to replicate to individual satellites.
Ł Hub moves documents around the AFS Network.
Ł Any AFS Server can be a Hub or a Satellite but once set, you cannot change it.
Ł Hub should be on same network as Adept Server.
Ł For each Hub, you must have an Adept user with Admin rights and a locked license.



Ł Optional: Binary Differencing can be enabled. This transfers only a difference document (a smaller transfer of data). Requires a separate license and is activated in the Licensing Tool and enabled in the Hub configuration.

Note: See the Adept Installation Guide for details on how to Configuring for Replication.

FTP Vaults
* Uses File Transfer Protocol to allow only authorized users to access documents in the FTP vault.
* FTP connection is transparent to users; username and password of Vault not needed.
* Adept handles permissions and user interface between Adept client and FTP Vault.
* FTP Vaults can be set up as Active mode (default) or Passive mode (typically used when communicating through a firewall - more secure).
* Compression can be set in the Vault Profile and in the Admin Options.
* Host computer must be running FTP Services an must set up FTP server on local network.

FTP for all operations except Copy and View
Allows Copy and View access directly across the LAN/WAN. All other operations (ex: check in/out) must be done through the FTP port. Users require network read access to the Library folders to be able to Copy and View documents directly.


FTP for all operations
Adept only accesses documents through FTP; Adept does NOT use LAN information (File Server and Share Name) for any operator tasks (ex: Check Out/In, View). To secure access to these documents, the network Admin should remove all shares that point to the Vault so that it is only accessible within Adept only by FTP.
Note: See Online Help, Vault Profile, for more information about the FTP Vault options.

Direct for all operations
* Adept communicates with the Vault across the LAN/WAN. It does not use any FTP ports
* Users need read/write access to the network folders that contain their Libraries
Display Name - Users will see this name in the Vault, Library Name and Extension view of your FileGuide.
File Server and Share Name - This information will be filled in if you browse to and select an existing Vault.

Document Server - DNS name of file server. Otherwise use IP address.

Share Name - Vault root directory share name.



SCAN DIRECTORIES
The Scan Dir command creates a new Library for each folder found under the parent folder you specify. This dialog is identical to Add Library except all libraries included in the Scan will inherit the configurations specified.

Scan Directory only creates Libraries. Use Synchronize to add existing documents to the Libraries.

 Best Practice Tip: The Path of a Library plus the length of the longest file name should not exceed 220 characters. To keep paths from growing too long, reduce unnecessary nesting.

1. Select the Vault to be scanned.
2. Select the Admin/System tab > Scan Dir button from the UGLA or right-click in the Library pane and select Scan Directories from the shortcut menu to add an existing folder structure.

Note: If your vault is configured as FTP for all operations, temporarily change it to Direct for all operations before Scan Dir, then change the Vault back to FTP. Or Set the Vault access to FTP for all operations except Copy and View.
3. In the dialog, the Starting Library field displays the name of the Library/folder you selected. If the selection is a Library, the settings for this Library will be used as the default setting for Libraries created by Scan Directories.

Fill in the Library name prefix if one is desired. This will be incorporated at the beginning of each new Library name created by this operation.

All the directories found in this scan will be listed in the dialog and prepared to be added as new Libraries.


4. Uncheck the box to the left of any library you want to exclude. When unchecked, the folder is not made into a library, but if it has folders beneath it, the unchecked ones will be kept as a folder.

* A Library symbol (full color) indicates a library already exists in Adept with same path
* A folder symbol indicates a new library will be added to adept
* A Library symbol (gray with dot in upper left) indicates the library already exists in Adept, but with a different path.
5. To rename any duplicate library:
In the Scan Directory dialog list, select a duplicate library and select the Rename Duplicates
button.

Note: Renaming a Library changes the Adept Name only and does not change the Windows folder name.
If you attempt to continue without excluding or renaming duplicate library names, an error message will be displayed and the library will not be created.
6. After making the needed changes, select OK to continue. Your new Libraries will appear in the Library pane.
7. A prompt will ask you if you want to synchronize the Libraries just added. Select Yes or No. Synchronize adds a record for every document in the folder into the Adept database.
See the Help topic Synchronize for more information.


Your new Libraries will be gray indicating no rights have been assigned. If a Library does not have any rights assigned, Users will have Document Manager rights except Delete, Rename and Move. (See Assigning Library Access Rights above)

MANAGING LIBRARIES
The Adept Administrator or a Library Administrator, can manually add new libraries, assign Groups to Libraries, and Set Rights to the Groups assigned to libraries. Only the Adept Administrator can create Users, create Groups, or Modify the Users in a Group.

Create a New Library
1. First, select an existing folder that will be the parent of your new Library.
2. Select Add Library from the right-click menu or click the large Add button.
3. Enter a new Library a name.
4. Select other options.
5. Click OK to close dialog.
6. Place cursor over new Library. Note information in Tool Tip.
Note: When the new library glyph is Purple, it means your new library is inheriting the User Rights from the parent.

Add Groups to Libraries
1. Select each Group to view the Users in Group.
2. Select your new library.
3. Select desired Group.
4. Select Add to Add Group to Library.
5. Select Set Rights to assign rights.

ASSIGNING LIBRARY ACCESS RIGHTS
As a Library Administrator, you have the ability to Assign Library Access Rights to any existing Groups. Additional Groups can only be created by the Adept Administrator.

Typically, Rights are inherited down the tree until finding a Library that already has a Group assigned to it. The added Group takes priority, and then applies from there down the tree to the next Library that has a group, and so on, down the tree.

Set Rights to a Group
1. Select the Group name in the Groups in Library section, notice the Set Right... button is activated. You could also right-click on a Group in the Groups in Library section and select Set Rights
	




There are 4 levels of inherited Rights: Viewing, Editing, Workflow Managing, and
Document Managing. Select any additional access rights within each Level.
2. Select the icon button(s) for the type of Rights you want to set.





WARNING: Do not modify the group rights for the group giving you Library Administration rights. Unchecking this option will disable your Library Administration rights.


COPY/PASTE LIBRARY SETTINGS
To help manage Library settings, you can copy the settings from one Library and paste them into another. However, you can only paste to one Library at a time.

1. First select the Library to copy from then right-click and select Copy Library Settings

2. Next, select the Library to copy the settings to and right-click to select Paste Library Settings
and then select the settings you want to copy to Library:


PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 22, which is included alongside this document.


PROPERTIES WINDOW
After assigning permissions you can check settings by right-clicking anywhere in the gray area of the window, then select Property Window from the shortcut menu. The contents of this window will change depending on whether you select a Library, a Group, or a User.

When a User is selected, the Properties window will show Libraries that the user has access to and rights per library.


When a Library is selected, the Properties window will also show information about the Workflow assigned to the Library, Users and Groups who have access rights.


When a Group is selected, the Properties window will show users within that group and which libraries that Group has access rights to.




LIBRARY TREE VIEW
By selecting one of the Views from the list above the Library tree, the symbol next to each Library will indicate its attributes. The color coding helps you understand how rights, properties, AFS and Workflow are assigned. A full color symbol indicates explicitly set values. Purple indicates inherited values. Gray indicates there are no values assigned.


Regardless of the current View, holding your cursor over a Library will display the Library name, folder name and if rights are set.


Rights View
The Glyphs (symbols) in this view indicate that explicit rights have been assigned to Libraries (full color) or rights are being inherited from its parent (purple color). See the section on Glyphs and Symbols for explanation of the other symbols.




Workflow View
The Glyph for this view indicates Workflow. The green color indicates a Workflow has been assigned to that Libraries. The purple indicate the Workflow is inherited from its parent. The last Library (no color) indicates this Library does not have a Workflow. A check of the Rights View will show that this is an Unchecked Library.


Replication View
The Glyph for this view indicates Replication. In this case no Libraries are being replicated.



Batch Editing Libraries
The options available on a library profile can be changed on two or more libraries at the same time.
After selecting two or more Libraries, select the Modify library button or select Modify Library from the shortcut menu (right-click).
Select the desired options and select OK to apply changes



Database Fields
System tab > Administer panel > Database Fields
The Administrator Database Fields dialog allows you to define the field behavior for each of your custom database fields.

The check boxes in this dialog let you change the properties of your fields.
* For a field that was designated as Character in the Designer, all Users can enter alphanumeric information if no boxes are checked for that field
* If Protected is checked, users must have rights to Edit Protected Fields to modify this field.
Note: This option does not apply to files with the status of New or Duplicate.
* If Extracted is checked, document properties and attribute can be mapped to this field. A extracted field allows data to be automatically imported from document attributes and properties. Your document attributes and properties can be mapped to this field type.
* If Restricted is checked, the Restricted Values area of the dialog becomes active to enter a list of values that Users must select from. The values listed in this area are displayed in a pulldown menu in the Data/Search card.



PLUGINS



System tab > Administer > Administer PlugIns




A PlugIn is an additional Feature that extends the core capability of Adept by providing a specific function. They are optional and are enabled and configured by the Adept administrator. A higher level of integration is available for the current versions of AutoCAD, Inventor, SolidWorks, MicroStation, MS Word and Excel. These PlugIns share a number of common features.


Notes:
* See the Adept User Guide (AdeptUser.pdf) and Adept Administration Guide (AdeptAdm.pdf) for more details on Installing, Administering, Configuring, and Using the various PlugIns.
* 	The Word and Excel PlugIns must be enabled to read or write properties in MS Office.
* The Excel PlugIn must be enabled for the Export to Excel option to appear on Collaborate > Data > Excel Spreadsheet.
* The Properties PlugIn is required to read properties from MS Office prior to 2003.
* If a PlugIn is enabled and the associated application is not installed on a user's computer, that PlugIn will not load on that user's computer,
* Loading and execution of each PlugIn is determined by their location on the list. There may be an occasion where you may need to control the order in which the PlugIns are executed. For example, if the Data Exporter and the Required Fields PlugIn are enabled, you will need to move the Required Fields PlugIn above Data Exporter on the list


PLUGIN ADMINISTRATION AND CONFIGURATION
* A PlugIn is an additional feature that extends the core capability of Adept.
* Plugins are optional and are enabled and configured by the Adept Administrator.
* PlugIns must be enabled before it will appear on this list.
* Extract and update Attributes and Properties.
* Extract part and xref relationships.
* The Task Pane implementation for CAD applications.

System tab> Administer panel > Configure PlugIns



The upper section of each Administration Configuration dialog is specific to that integration.
In this dialog you will select Extensions and Options for the specific PlugIn. See online help for
PlugIn Overview and Options.
* The Extensions pane shows a list of document extensions for all document types supported by the selected PlugIn. Check the extensions for the types of files from which you want Adept to extract data.
* The Options pane lists the options supported by the selected PlugIn. Check the options you want to operate when Adept examines each supported document type.

The bottom of the dialog allows you to map application attributes to Adept extractions fields.
1. First, select Scan to select an appropriate template and populate the Available Data field list.
2. Next, Drag and Drop between the Adept Extraction Fields and the Available Data to create the mapping and select OK when finished.
3. Select Report to generate a Report about all mappings.



AutoCAD

Inventor

SolidWorks

MicroStation



GENERAL OPTIONS
OptionDescriptionExtract Attributes/Properties/TagsThe value found in an AutoCAD Attribute, a SolidWorks, Inventor or MS Office Property or a MicroStation Tag, will be "extracted" into the mapped database field. This information will be displayed on a Data card and in the Columns of a Work Area, FileGuide or Search
Results window.Extract LayoutsAll Layouts found in an AutoCAD file will be extracted and displayed in the Extended tab in the Document Dashboard. The tab name will change from Extended to Layouts when an AutoCAD file is selected.Extract RelationshipsThe name and location of children files will be extracted. Relationship name information will be displayed in the Children tab of the Document Dashboard and location, or "Path saved in
drawing" information will be displayed in the Drawing Info tab.Extract ThumbnailsThe thumbnail image saved by the application will be extracted. These will be displayed on the Thumbnail tabs of a Data card and the
Document Dashboard.Update DocumentIf a user has permission, values from a Data Card will be written to AutoCAD Attributes, SolidWorks, Inventor or MS Office Properties or MicroStation Tags. This option is a check box at the top of a Data
card.Batch Open and SaveFor AutoCAD, SolidWorks, Inventor and MS Office, each selected file is opened in the supported native application then saved back to the Adept vault and closed. Useful when updating a large number of CAD files to the latest version to maintain compatibility.Control LaunchingFor SolidWorks, Inventor, MicroStation and MS Office, this option tells Adept that it's okay to Launch the application. It also prevents a new instance of the application from starting if one is already open.SOLIDWORKS ONLY
OptionDescriptionExtract In-context, Derived and Mirrored Part RelationshipsIn-Context: Controls whether or not the potentially circular relationships in assemblies is extracted.
Derived and Mirrored Part Relationships: Controls whether the parent-
child relationships for derived and mirrored parts is tracked.Extract Configurations and SheetsExtracts all Configuration and Sheet properties. The tab name will change from Extended to Configurations when a SolidWorks file is
selected.Always Display Default on
Configurations TabThe properties for the Default configuration are displayed in the
Configurations tab of the Document Dashboard. Generally unchecked.Extract Linked DocumentsAdept will extract Equation Files and other OLE Objects and create a
manual relationship.

Property Type:
* Summary Information - Native/built in property (SWX/Inventor)
* Design Tracking Properties - Native/built in properties (Inventor)
* Document Summary Information - Native/built in property (Inventor)
* Custom Properties - Added by user (SWX)
* User Defined Properties - Added by user (Inventor)
* Other - Added by integration (SWX/ Inventor)

MAPPING TO DATABASE FIELDS
The bottom section for mapping fields is similar for all PlugIns.

The Adept Extraction Fields section (left pane) displays your custom database fields that are defined as Extracted. The Available Data section (right pane) lists all Attributes/Properties found in the selected template files. Drag and Drop between the left and right pane.

Notes:
* Only database fields defined as Extraction in the Administer Database Fields dialog will be shown.
* The File Version property from Inventor, SolidWorks and AutoCAD can be extracted to an Adept data field.

After selecting Scan, select Add in the Scanner dialog:

Then browse to and select the appropriate templates. After clicking OK, the templates are scanned for all Attributes/Properties.


To map Attributes/Properties to an Adept database field:
1. Select a database field under Adept Extraction Fields
2. Select the associated Attributes/Properties under Available Data
3. Drag it to the center column


Properties
This PlugIn is required to extract properties from Word and Excel prior to 2003 and all versions of PowerPoint, Project and Visio.

Note: Different Windows files store properties with different technical conventions. Adept is only able to extract properties from files that conform to the STG Open Storage standard.

Excel and Word
MS Office 2003 and later - There are two separate PlugIns required to extract and update Word and Excel properties and form fields.

Windows Images
This PlugIns allows thumbnail images to be extracted from the selected file types. The Thumbnail Format can be adjusted to provide the best image.

Note: Be aware that the higher the Pixel settings are the more space within the Adept database that the thumbnail will take.


XML Properties
Use this PlugIn to extract properties from supported XML files, such as docx and xlsx


Required Fields
Use this PlugIn to require users to enter metadata, during checking in to a library.
  Note: Required fields works with related fields. Choose the related field in the Required fields PlugIn and Adept will prompt the user to enter data to all the related fields.




SYNCHRONIZE



Synchronize is a two-pass process:
* The first pass creates a new database record for each file found in the selected Libraries.
* The second pass scans each new file for extractable information and updates System and Extraction fields in the database.




Synchronize All - Scans all files found

Synchronize New - Scans only new files added to Library

Resume - Continue scan after a Cancel or failure

Extraction Options button -opens the Adept Administrator's Relationships option


1. Selecting Synchronize opens the Relationship Extraction dialog allowing you to modify the default behavior for this operation.

2. Click OK to continue.
When Synchronize is complete, a summary of what was found will be displayed.
3. Click OK to close the dialog.

Specialized Searches
Search for Files with Unresolved Relationships

Admin tab > Search panel > Unresolved Relationships


If a file contains an external reference, and Synchronize can't locate a reference in the database, the file is marked with a red slash to show it contains unresolved children.	

Unresolved Relationships Results
* Save list for review?
* Resolve now?

Search for Duplicate File Names

Admin tab > Search panel > For Duplicates


When Adept is installed for the first time, the option to enforce unique file names is set to Not Enforced. This allows duplicate filenames to be synchronized into Adept.

Once Enforce Unique File Names is enabled, any synchronize process would allow the first instance of a name, but if another instance is found, the process would stop and present a dialog waiting for a response. This command allows you to search for the duplicate names and list any found in an Adept window.


Duplicate File Names Results
* Are they allowed in your company? If yes, why?
* If not, how can they be resolved?
* Adept has an option to enforce unique filenames.
* Batch rename?
* Batch Update and Move?

DOCUMENT TEMPLATES, OPEN APPLICATIONS AND DOCUMENT TYPES
System tab > Administer > Document Templates, Open Apps, etc.


This configuration associates a new document template with an appropriate application and a specialized viewer if needed.

Document Templates
These are your company standard templates that will be used as "start" documents. After creating the Document Type, they will be available using the Document New command in your Work Areas.

1. After selecting Add or Update... or Import Directory.
2. Browse to your Windows template folder and select the document template.



Open Applications
Adding applications here builds the Launch Application and Start lists.


1. Select Add to open the Open Application dialog.

2. Select the Windows Registry Key Browse button to open the Registered Applications dialog.
Note: If using the Registry Key, you must be logged into Adept as an administrator on the computer where the application is installed.
3. Locate the application to be added and select OK.

The required information is automatically filled in.


4. Edit the Launch Application Name as needed.
* For an application that will be used to edit your documents select Restricted (Launching and Editing).
* For an application that will be used to view your documents select Unrestricted (Viewing) and check Include Children.

Alternate Configuration
You might have a condition where the same application could be installed to a different location on different computers. To avoid the need to configure multiple Open configurations for the same application to accommodate this problem, Adept provides an alternate configuration method.

* Select Add to open the Open Application dialog.
* Select Windows Start and select All Programs.
* Locate the shortcut for the desired application then select and drag the application to the Command Line and Parameters field on the Open Application dialog.
* Release the mouse button and the field will be filled in with the link to that application.

* Add a description in the Open Application Name field.
* Enter all possible extension that could be used by the application. (i.e. .dwg; .dxf)
* For an application that will be used to edit your documents select Restricted (Launching and Editing).
* For an application that will be used to view your documents select Unrestricted (Viewing) and check Include Children.

Document Types
A Document Type is created by associating an Open Application with a Template. Assigning a Document Type assures the correct application is Opened.





For an application that will be used to edit a document:

* Document Type Name - This is the name that will appear on the Document > Operations > Set Document Type list.


* Document Template - Select a template from the list.
* Open Application - Select the appropriate editing application for the selected template.

For an application that will be used to view a document:


If there is more than one Document Type defined for an extension, you can designate one of them as the Default.


These Document Types will be available on the Document > Operations > Set Document Type.


PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 23, which is included alongside this document.


Adept









WORKFLOW
ADMINISTRATOR























Synergis Software
          
Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Workflow	3
Workflow Actions	3
Approve...	4
Expedite Approve	4
Final Approve	4
Reject	4
Reject To	4
Expedite Reject	5
Assign	5
Reset to Start (of Workflow)	5
Reroute Workflow	5
Set Document Workflow	6
Workflow Manager	6
Workflow Administrator	7
Create/Edit a Workflow	7
Administer Workflows	13
Edit a Workflow	13
Copy a Workflow	14
Delete Unused Workflows	15
Share a Workflow	16
Workflow Report	17
Copy Version to Current	17
Practice/Questions	18


WORKFLOW
* A Workflow is a sequence of one or more approval steps a document must go through before it is entered into a library. When the document is approved at the final step in a workflow, the document enters the library. Workflows are created by an Adept System Admin or Workflow Administrator.
* Any Checked libraries that do not have a specific workflow assigned to it, will be automatically assigned the Adept System Workflow.
* A document enters a workflow when it is Checked In to a library configured as a Checked Library by the Adept System Admin or a Library Admin.
* At each step in a Workflow, the document appears in the Inbox for the designated Reviewer(s) of that step. An email notification can also be automatically sent to the Reviewers at each step. Automatic email notifications are configured by the Adept System Admin.
* One or more Reviewers in a workflow step may be required to Approve the document (moving it to the next step) or Reject the document (moving it to the previous step). A Reviewer may also be given the rights to Assign a document to a user for further review or work.
* The minimum rights for a Workflow Reviewer:

* The status of any document in a Workflow can be checked by selecting the Workflow tab in the Document Dashboard then selecting the document.


WORKFLOW ACTIONS

Right-click on a document in a workflow to Assign, Unassign, or Approve.
Note: Reject is not on the Right-click menu.


Approve...
Any Reviewer can issue an Approve in a Workflow step. Approve will advance the document to the next step in the workflow. When the document is in the last step of a workflow, Approve returns the document to the Library.

Shortcut Key: F3
Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Approve
Right-Click: Approve

Expedite Approve
When a Workflow step permits it, Workflow Manager can issue an Expedite Approve.
   Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Expedite Approve
This allows a Workflow Manager to move the document any number of steps forward in the workflow, including approving it at the last step and returning it to the library.

You can select multiple documents and Expedite Approve only if all selected documents are in the same workflow and the same library.

Final Approve
A Final approve moves selected documents to the end of the workflow and returns them to the library.


An Adept System Admin can select any document with a status of HOLD and issue a Final Approve.

A Workflow Manager is allowed to Final Approve a document for which they are reviewer and only if the workflow step permits Expedite Approve.

Reject...
Any Reviewer can issue a Reject in a Workflow step. Reject returns the document to the previous step in the Workflow. When the document is on the first step of a workflow, Reject has no meaning and is disabled.

Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Reject


Reject To
Any Reviewer can send a document back more than one step using Reject To. Reject To can be restricted to a particular preceding range of steps.



You can select multiple documents and reject them to a step in a workflow only if all documents are in the same workflow and the same library.

Expedite Reject
When a Workflow step permits it, Workflow Manager can issue an Expedite Reject to return the document to any previous step of the workflow.


You expedite reject multiple documents only if all documents are in the same workflow and same library.

Assign...
A Reviewer may Assign a document to any user in the next step. If allowed, a Reviewer may Assign the document to any Adept user.
Shortcut Key: F2
Tab: Workflow > Assign > Assign
Right Click: Assign

Reset to Start (of Workflow)
If Expedite Reject is allowed, one or more documents can be Reset to the start of a workflow.

Tab: Workflow > Reviewer > Reset to Start


Reroute Workflow...
If a Workflow Step permits it, Reviewers (Workflow Manager or above) at that step can temporarily change the Active Workflow by rerouting it to another workflow.

Select the document, Select the ReRoute command, and then select the Workflow to reroute to.

Tab: Workflow > Reroute Workflow

The document enters the new workflow at the first step. After the document is returned to the library, the next time it enters a workflow, it enters the original workflow.


Set Document Workflow...
A Workflow Manager, Library Administrator, or Adept System Administrator can set a
workflow on a specific document not yet in a workflow. This Document Workflow overrides the workflow set at the library level. A document workflow cannot be set on a document with a status of NEW (not yet checked into a library). To set the Document Workflow:
Select one or more document(s) and select Set Document command.

Tab: Workflow > Set Document Workflow



Then select the Workflow from the pulldown menu:


The document workflow will be the default workflow that is applied once the document is checked out of a checked library and then checked back in. The workflow does not affect the workflow of a document that is already in a workflow.

If the document is already in a workflow, a second dialog asks if you also want to change the active workflow, in effect causing a reroute.

The current document workflow can be viewed by adding the column Document Workflow.


WORKFLOW MANAGER
The Workflow Manager has the same rights asset for Explorer/Reviewer and Edit/Creator plus has special rights when approving and rejecting documents. The Adept System Admin gives Workflow Manager access rights to any group added to a library. Workflow Managers can perform the following tasks:
* In a one-step workflow, the Workflow Manager is responsible for approving documents.
* In a multi-step workflow, the Workflow Manager has the ability to expedite through steps of the workflow or Re-route to a different Workflow (if the step enables the action) in any workflow step in any system workflow.
* Delete documents with HOLD status.


* Assign/Unassign documents to other users.
* Modify or delete redlines/comments made by other users in documents.
* Set a workflow for a specific document (this takes precedence over the library workflow).

WORKFLOW ADMINISTRATOR
The Workflow Admin is a user that has been given special rights to create, edit and delete workflows. The user does not have permission to assign workflows to libraries or to documents. This right is assigned to the user by the Adept System Administrator in their User Profile.

Create/Edit a Workflow
The Adept System Administrator and the Workflow Administrator have the ability to manage Workflows.

Tab: Admin > Manage > Workflow


Steps for Creating a Workflow
1. Invoke the Workflow command. A list of Workflows is displayed. Select Add to begin creating a new Workflow.

2. Enter a name for the new Workflow and select Add Step to begin creating the Steps for the Workflow.



3. Enter a name for the Workflow step and select Add/Edit... to set the Reviewers for this workflow step. Note: to see all options as shown below, select More Options button.

Select from the Groups and/or Users from the right pane of the Choose Reviewers dialog. Double-click on the selection(s) or select <-- Add. You can view the members of a group by right-clicking on the group name and selecting Show Group Members.

Notes:
* When you assign a Group to a Workflow step, you are not automatically assigning it to the Library. Each Library that uses this


Workflow needs to also contain the Groups that are required by the Workflow.
* Members of a step must have at least View/Resolve to WIP rights to the library.
<access denied> will be displayed for any Reviewer without the minimum requirements.
4. Decide if more than one approval from the Reviewers is needed in order to move to the next step in the Workflow. Select Allow Multiple Approvals and set the required number of approvals.

As each Reviewer Approves the document, it is removed from the Inbox of the person that approved it. The document stays in the workflow until the required number of Approvals has been obtained. At that time, the document is then moved to the next workflow step.
5. The Auto-Advance option in a Workflow step is used to automatically advance a document to the next workflow step under the following circumstances:

Ł When a document is checked into the Workflow for the first time and the first step has Auto-Advance option is checked.
Ł When a document is Approved and moving to the next step, and that next step has Auto-Advance checked, the document automatically skips to the step after that one (skips a step).
A document will not automatically advance past an Auto-Advance step when:
Ł The document is landing on the Auto-Advance step because it was Rejected.
Ł The document is landing on the Auto-Advance step because it was Expedite Approved or Expedite Rejected.
The Advance After Check In applies to a document that has been checked out from a Workflow step. When both the Auto-Advance and Advance After Check In options are checked in a workflow step, the document will auto-advance when it is checked back in. Note: An Auto-Advance step cannot require Multiple Approvals

If the document is checked out from a step that has After Check In Redirect, when it is check in again, it will go to the step specified in the After check in Redirect option.

6. To set up sending of an email notification when a document enters a workflow step:
Ł Check the box to Send Email and select Edit Recipients



Ł Choose the recipients of the email and select OK:

Note: Both sender and recipient must have email addresses in their user profiles. Note: The -- all Reviewers -- will how up in the To field of the email, all other recipients will show up in the CC field of the email.

The Adept System Administrator must enable email notifications for the Workflow in the Adept Options > Admin > Email Notification




7. Adept Timeout Alert
This sets a timeout notification that is sent when a document remains at this workflow step longer than a certain time limit. The Adept server will automatically send out an email.
Ł Select Edit Alert to open the Workflow Alert dialog.

Ł Set the Alert Interval:
* Initial Interval - Measured from the time the document enters Workflow. From 1 hour to 30 days.
* Recurring Interval - When checked, alert is sent at the set time.
Skip Saturday/Sunday - When checked, the timer stops at midnight Friday and resumes either Saturday or Sunday midnight.
Ł After setting up Alert Intervals, check the box to Enable the Alert. To stop Alerts, uncheck the box.
Ł Select Edit to add the Recipients and/or emails to receive the notification when a timeout occurs. Select OK when finished.
8. Choose any of the Other Options

Comment required to leave this step - When checked, Reviewers must enter text in the Comment field before Approve or Reject.


Only allow Assignment to other reviewers - When checked, Assign is restricted to only Reviewers of next step.

Under Routing
Allow Reroute to new workflow by Reviewer - When checked, any Reviewer in this Step may move the document to a different Workflow. The document is immediately moved to the beginning of the new Workflow. If the Reviewer is also a Workflow Manager, they could make the new Workflow persistent.
Allow Expedite Approve at this step by Workflow Manager -When checked, any Workflow Manager in this Library may Expedite Approve a document forward to any step in the workflow, including final approval.
Allow Expedite Reject at this step by Workflow Manager - When checked, any Workflow Manager in this Library may Expedite Reject a document back to any step in the workflow. Allow Check Out (Reviewers, Assigned, or Last Owner with Check Out rights) - When checked, document may be Checked out, and potentially opened and edited. When Checked In, document is returned to the same step.
Note: Minor version is created after the document is Checked In.
After Check In or document modification, redirect the document to the specified step - After Check In automatically send to the selected step.
Force Reject command to specific previous step of workflow: - When checked, force document back to the selected step in the Workflow.
Restrict range of Reject To command - from previous step to: - When checked, the Reviewer can choose to send the document back to any step listed.
9. Repeat the process of defining workflow steps until the workflow is complete.
Then OK to return to the Administer Workflow dialog. Notice the new Workflow is listed.



ADMINISTER WORKFLOWS
As an Adept System Admin, you can Add, Edit, Copy, Delete, and Share Workflows.
1. Admin > Manage > Workflow.
2. Select a Workflow from the list.
3. Select an action on the right.


Columns in Administer Workflow Dialog:
Name - name of the Workflow
Steps - number of steps defined in the workflow.
Documents in Process - number of documents currently in process in this workflow. Rights - indicates rights you have for each workflows (ex: View Only, Can Edit, Can Share). Shared - indicates if the workflow is Shared, Shared with All, or Not Shared.
Owner - the creator of the workflow. Only the Owner can Share the workflow. Ownership can be transferred using the Share Manager.
Locked By - the name of user currently editing the workflow; if locked, cannot be edited by any other user.

Edit a Workflow
1. Select the Edit button to change the Workflow Name.
2. Change the Workflow Email Configuration or to Add, Edit, Copy, or Delete a workflow step.
3. Use Move Up and Move Down to rearrange steps.



When adding or editing a workflow step, the Create/Edit Workflow Step dialog appears. Enter information to create the new step or edit the options in the existing step. A new step is placed at the bottom of the list of steps. Use Move Up and Move Down to rearrange steps.

When Copying a workflow step, a copy of the step is saved as the same name but appends a number:

When deleting a workflow step, it is removed from the list of steps.

Rules:
* only one Administrator can edit a workflow at a time.
* Adept System Admin can edit, share, delete any workflow.
* Unshared workflows can only be edited by the owner and the Adept System Admin.
* When Share with All Users (View Only) is checked, Workflow Admin can still edit a workflow.

Copy a Workflow
You may decide to copy and modify an existing workflow.

Select the Copy button to copy the selected Workflow. A dialog appears asking if you want to share the new workflows. The new workflow has the same name as the original workflow except it has a number appended.



Select the new Workflow and select Edit to change the Workflow name. Make the necessary changes and Save.


Delete Unused Workflows
Best Practice Tip: Before deleting Workflows, check if the Workflow has any documents in process (Admin tab > Workflow) and run the Workflow Admin Report (System tab > Maintenance panel > Reports > Workflow) to be sure the Workflow is not being used.
Workflows that are define but not used are displayed at the end of the report. Select the workflow and select Delete.

The prompt appears:

If you answer No, the workflow is not deleted. If you answer Yes, the Workflow is Locked by the Adept System Admin and is marked as deleted.

If you select the workflow marked as deleted, you can have the opportunity to UnDelete it.


When selecting OK to exit the Administer Workflow dialog, the following message appears:

Note: Workflow Administrators can delete any Workflow that they are an Owner of. Note: Only the Adept System Administrator can Delete any Workflow.


Share a Workflow
The Adept System Administrator (ADM) or the Workflow Administrator can Share a Workflow (unless it is Locked by another Admin). Typically, a Workflow is not Shared until it is completed.

In the Administer Workflow dialog, select the workflow you want to Share, then select the Share button. The dialog then opens to select the users/groups you want to share the workflow with.



Another method to share a workflow, is to select Collaborate tab > Share Manager, then from the pulldown menu, select Workflow.

Then select the workflow and select the Share button. The dialog appears to select who you want to share the workflow with.
Note: The Ownership of the workflow can be changed using the Share Manager


WORKFLOW REPORT

Tab: System > Maintenance > Reports > Workflow


This report lists the name of each Workflow, the groups assigned as Reviewers, the name of each step in that Workflow, and the options assigned to that step. The report also checks each Workflow to make sure there are no users in any step without the minimum View/Resolve to WIP rights.


COPY VERSION TO CURRENT
This command copies a previous version of a document and makes it the current version. The status of the document must be Hold or Review. Select the document from Search Results or FileGuide, then select Copy to Current. In the dialog, select the version. A copy of that version becomes the current version and the minor version is increased.

Tab: Workflow> Versions > Copy to Current




PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 24, which is included alongside this document.


Adept





ADMINISTRATION OPTIONS


























Synergis Software


           Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Backstage - Options	3
Admin	3
Global User	5
Database and Login	7
Email Notification	9
Server SMTP & Viewer	11
Watermarks	12
Virtual Library	14
Properties/Attribute	15
Relationships	16
Audit Trail	17
Full Text Search	18
Active Directory	19
Transmittal & Report	20
User Circles	21
Localization	22
Troubleshooting	23

BACKSTAGE - OPTIONS
The Administration Options affect the behavior of the entire Adept site.


Tab: Tools > Options > Options



ADMIN

Background
Interval in seconds that the client polls the database to check if anything is Assigned to user (Inbox) and if the Admin locked the system for maintenance.
A value of "0" (zero) disables polling.

Client Side FTP Components
Enhanced FTP
This option includes support for file compression and secure FTPS available in 3rd party FTP products. If this option is selected, you must also select FTPS -Secure FTP over SSL/TSL on the Vault Profile.


Standard Windows FTP
This option allows you to force standard FTP support.
Note: After you change this option, you must exit Adept and log back in before it takes effect.

Adept Server Workflow Alerts
Adept maintains the length of time a document remains in each stop.
Minutes between Workflow Alerts Test
Similar to Background above except in minutes. This option checks the time a document remains in each Workflow step, and if expired, send a notification. A value of "0" (zero) disables workflow alerts.

Clear document workflow when document is copied
If Unchecked, any Workflow assigned to the document being copied, will also be copied.

If Checked, the document workflow resets to the Adept System Workflow

Check In Options
Enable Undo Check Out
This option controls whether or not users will be able to choose the option in the Check In dialog to Undo Check Out.
Note: This option does not affect the command Undo Check Out of Unchanged Children

Hide/Show
Hide Libraries form users with no view rights
When this option is unchecked, users will see all Library names in the FileGuide. When this option is checked, the user will not see Library names for those Libraries where they do not have view rights but will see <access denied> instead. In all cases,
the icon used for Libraries where the user has no view rights or where the item is not a Library but only a folder is a folder icon with a red "X" inside.


GLOBAL USER

Batch Update Data Card (Admins are not limited by these settings)
Enable Batch Update of Data Cards
Enable or disable the ability for all users to Batch Update Data Cards.
Allow unlimited number to Batch Update
If unchecked, the Admin can define the number of Data Cards a user may update at one time.

Viewer
Enable Headers and Footers Tab in print properties dialog
When checked, allows users to modify Headers and Footers printed from the Viewer.

Work Area Options
Allow users to edit the Label field
Enable or Disable the ability for the user to edit the Label field when creating a new Work Area.
Validate all Work Areas on Login
Validates work areas on login; can cause longer login time if there are many invalid work areas.


Memo Tab
Memo Tab Title
The Adept Administrator can change the Memo Tab label from the default "Memo"
Maximum Memo Data Size
This allows the Adept Administrator to limits the amount of data that can be entered in the Memo tab. Maximum size is 4MB.

Date Display Format
You can select several formats that will be used to display dates and times. The format selected will be used to display dates in Adept windows (Data Card, Search Results, FileGuide, Document Dashboard and Work Area). This setting does not change the underlying data structure of Adept but simply alters the way the information is displayed to the user.

Adept Standard Format (Local) MM/DD/YYYY HH:MM:SS
Commonly used in the U.S.
Year/Month/Day (Local) (YYYY/MM/DD HH:MM:SS)
Commonly used in European countries and is best suited for sorting.
ISO UTC (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SSZ)
Displays date/time with the T removed for readability, and the Z visible for accuracy.
ISO Local (YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS)
Converts the UTC times to Local times and displays with the T removed for readability.
Windows (Conforms to Windows setting)
This option converts dates and times to UTC Local times and displays them according to the setting on your Windows operating system.


DATABASE AND LOGIN

Unique Filenames
Not Enforced
Duplicate file names can be synchronized or checked into libraries.
Enforce System-wide
Unique File Names is enforced throughout the entire Adept system regardless of library or vault.
Enforce Per vault
Enforces unique names within each Vault but allows the same filename to exist in more than one Vault.

Unique Library Names
Enforce System-Wide
Duplicate library names can be created regardless of vault.
Enforce Per Vault
Enforces unique names within each Vault but allows the same library name to exist in more than one Vault.


Login Authentication Method (server restart required)
Adept Username and Password; this is the Classic mode.
The username and password will be checked against the User Profile entered by the Adept Administrator. If this method is used, the Adept Username and Password are independent from the Windows domain.
Domain Login Options
Windows Username and Password
The user will type in their current Windows Username and Password. The Adept Server will then authenticate the user name and password against the password Windows has stored in the User's domain. This domain is specified in the User's Profile. If the User Profile does not specify a domain, the default domain will be used, as specified in the Edit/Options/Authentication dialog.
Notes:
* Adept does not save such passwords. Users must type password each time they log in.
* Authentication requires the User Name in Adept be identical to the User Name in Windows.
* The ADM login does not use Windows authentication. You always authenticate ADM directly in Adept with the Adept Password.
Windows Username Only
If Auto Login is unchecked, the user will type in their current Windows Username, but not a password. The server will then authenticate the user name against the windows domain. If the typed login name does not match the name under which they are currently logged into Windows, then the behavior reverts to Windows User Name and Password. Only Windows Username Only will allow Auto Login. If a user has Auto Login selected, when Adept starts up it will try to authenticate if the workstation has already been signed in with a valid Windows username.
Allow users to use Auto Login
When checked users will be permitted to enable Auto Login.

Note: When Single Sign On is enable, all options are disabled as authentication happens through your identity provider.


EMAIL NOTIFICATION
Use this dialog to set up Adept email notification options. For email notification, addresses for each Adept user are set in their User Profile. Define SMTP servers in the Edit->Options->Server SMTP dialog. If SMTP server is not specified in the User Profile, Adept will use the available MAPI application.

Email Notification
Send Email When Assigned
When a document is Assigned, Adept can send an email to notify the assignee. Unchecking this option turns off all notification. The Allow Sender to Edit sub-option interrupts the sending of mail so users can edit it. Since this ability is not available in SMTP, if the option is set, Adept will try to use a default MAPI server if one is available.
Allow Email to Workflow Reviewers
When a document is signed into a Workflow, Adept can notify all Reviewers in that step. This option also controls notice to the originator of the workflow for Final Approval.
Allow Sender to Edit
This sub-option interrupts sending of mail so users can edit it. This ability is not available in SMTP. If the option is set, Adept tries to use a default MAPI server if one is available.
Allow Sender to Edit
When this is checked the Sender is able to edit the email to put in any information or change the subject line before the email is sent to the recipient.


Send Email on Check in to Hold
Allows the ability to not send an email on Check in.
Allow Email Alerts
Adept can Alert a list of users if a document has been in a Workflow step longer than the timeout. This option does not permit user editing and must be sent through SMTP.
Email Setup - Use Custom Header / Footer
Alerts sent through SMTP cannot be edited. The email subject line will contain one of these lines depending on what event triggered the email. To customize the Header/Footer, select the Email Setup... button.

There are four types of email notifications, each of which can have its own subject line: Assign, Review, Final Approval, and Alert.

The notification can be customized by defining in a Header and/or Footer.

Adept will also add data to the email notification based on the values in the database. By selecting a Column Set in the Email Setup dialog, you will instruct Adept to include the values of each of the fields in the Column Set in the body of the email.
Adept Web Server
URL Root:
When the Administrator enters the root of your Adept Web Client server site into this field, it will allow users to send a URL that can be used in Adept Web Client.
When you approve a document in Workflow, and if the Workflow step allows email notification, the email includes an *.als document that contains a link to the document you approved. If the recipient has Adept installed, and has access to the same Data Source as you, double-clicking on the Adept List document brings up Adept with the documents listed in the Search Results window. Your Administrator can extend the feature of a link file to include Adept Web Browser Client users by entering the URL of the Adept Web Browser server here. The Email notification will include a URL that you can paste into the Adept Web Browser client. When you navigate to the URL, the documents appear in the recipient's Search Results window.
.als Lists - Lifespan in Days
When Adept sends emails it includes a list of the associated documents. These lists, when attached to an email, are stored in documents with an extension of .als. When sent to the Web Browser client, the lists are stored on the server so they can be referenced by the Web Browser Client. In order to prevent the collection of lists on the


server from growing indefinitely, Adept removes older ones automatically. Set this lifespan to establish the timeout period. Notifications older than this period are automatically removed from the server.

SERVER SMTP & VIEWER

Server SMTP Settings
The Server SMTP is used only for timeout Alerts. This Alert is issued by the server itself, without needing anyone to be logged in since the server is set up independent of any specific user.
Server: Enter the mail server name.
SMTP Port: Port number that SMTP uses for your mail server.
Server's From Address: Reply to email address.
Enable SSL: check this option if encrypted emails are required.
Send Test
To ensure that you have established communication with the SMTP server, select the Send Test button.
Authentication
If your SMTP Server requires authentication, check this option and enter a Login Name and Password.


WATERMARKS
The Administrator can set Watermark options to label all documents printed from the Adept Print option or printing from within the Adept Viewer.
Note: Users will see these labels when selecting Document Tab - Printing > Using Viewer, but only Administrators can change them.

Watermark on Each Document State
For each label, you can add the Date, Time and User Name by clicking your cursor in the label field, and then clicking the appropriate button. This adds placeholders that will be filled in with the appropriate information when the document is printed.
Current Version
Latest approved document in a Library (status is IN).
Previous Version
Documents in the Version database (status is Versioned).
Work on Hold or Review
Document status is Hold or Review.
Work Out to Current Operator
Document status is Out and you are the owner.
Work Out to Other Operator
Document status is Out and another user is the owner.
Work that is New
Document status is New or Duplicate.


Watermark Promotion
Administrators can set different labels for documents in a variety of states in the Workflow and routing process. In some cases the value of the Watermark Label will differ depending on the option you select for Label Promotion.
Watermarks Reflect the Document Status
Current Version - This label is used when you print the IN version, regardless of whether there is also a copy on HOLD or OUT.
Previous Version - This label is printed when you print a document with a Version status.
Work on Hold or Review - This label is used when you print a document on Hold or Review.
Work Out to Current Operator - This label is used when you print a document that Out to you.
Work Out to Other Operator - This label is used when you print a document checked out to someone else. Since you can't view documents out to someone else, you will need to change your Information Source to Library. When you print the In document, this label will be used.
Work that is New - These documents will be in your Work Area with the status of New or Duplicate.
Watermarks Reflect the Status of the Most Current Version
Current Version - This label is used when you view the Library copy of the document, (status is IN), unless you or someone else also have that document signed out.
Previous Version - This label is used when you have pointed to the Versioned document in the Document Dashboard or if you searched for the document in the Version database. (status is Versioned)
Work on Hold or Review - This label is used when the document status is Hold or Review. This label will be used even if you are actually printing the version of the document that is IN. This label is used for a document that is on Hold, even if the Information Source is set to Library.
Work Out to Current Operator - This label is used when the document is currently OUT to you. This label will be used even if you are actually printing the version that is IN. Work Out to Other Operator - The document is signed out to someone else. This label is used for a document that has a copy Out to another, even if the Information Source is set to Library.
Work that is New - Documents in the User's Work Area with a Status of New or Duplicate.


VIRTUAL LIBRARY

Grant write permission...
The Virtual Library (VL) is used by Adept for temporary storage of documents (children) needed, and any documents in the VL are not saved. Any changes made to documents in Adept's VL will eventually be lost. To prevent users from making changes to documents in the VL, Adept sets permissions to these documents to read-only. However, some applications require that documents in the VL be given read-write permissions to work properly. To accommodate this requirement, Adept provides the option to specify which documents placed in the VL will be given read-write permissions. Simply list the extension of the documents you wish to be made read-write, separating each extension with a semi-colon. For example, .SLDRPT,.SLDASM,.SLDDRW. After you enter extensions into this field, documents meeting this criteria have read-write permissions.

Note: Use this field cautiously. When documents in the VL are read-write, you could inadvertently save changes to documents in the VL. Such changes will be lost as Adept will eventually refresh the VL with versions of those documents from the Adept Library. If you need to use this field, follow the recommendations offered by Synergis Support.


PROPERTIES/ATTRIBUTE

Never Blank Data in the Database
Even if the mapped field in the document is blank, leave the extraction field in the Adept database unchanged.
Warning: If you have already entered information into these extraction fields in the database the following two options can overwrite this data.
Blank data in the database when the extraction item exists in the file and is blank When the document contains a mapped field that is blank, blank the corresponding extraction field in the Adept database. (However, if there is no such field in the document, leave the Adept database field alone.)
Blank data in the database when the extraction item does not exist in the file
If the mapped field in the document is blank, or if there is no such mapped field in the document, blank the corresponding extraction field in the Adept database.
Note: This only blanks out database fields for document types that are mapped. If the mapped extraction field is for an Inventor document, this field is never blanked out for a TXT document.


RELATIONSHIPS
Adept tracks relationships among documents and displays the relationships in the Document Dashboard. These options affect the way relationships are handled and displayed.

Default Parent/Child Behavior
When synchronizing existing documents, creating a new Work Area to a directory with existing documents, or copying new documents into your Work Area, Adept assigns the default relationship behavior.
Default Behavior on Synchronize Applies To:
All Relationships
Caution: Changing to All Relationships will overwrite any previously set Part/Xref version settings
New Relationships only
Applies only to relationships created outside of Adept and that are not yet signed in.
On Check In & Approve
Force Children with Parent
If any Children are checked out or new attachments are made to the parent, all Children must be checked in with the Parent. If unchecked, the user has the option to unselect any Children.
Attempt to resolve unresolved children
When Adept cannot find an externally referenced document, it marks the parent and records the missing document. Then, whenever you check in a document, Adept checks through the list of unresolved references to see if that document satisfies any of the missing names.


When Editing......
Virtualize manually related files
When unchecked, eliminates children of unlinked records from downloading to your Virtual Library.
Special Folders and Relationship Display Depth
Ignore Unresolved Children from these Folders
Solidworks users: When using Toolbox, standard parts are created and placed directly into a folder. But until you synchronize the folder, Adept doesn't know about these parts. As a result, the Document Dashboard tree may display them as unresolved relationships. By entering the folder name, Adept will ignore the error and no error condition will be displayed in the Document Dashboard. The standard parts are located exactly where Solidworks expects them, and will be resolved by the Solidworks application. Use the field to list the folders to be ignored, separated by a (;) semi-colon.
Maximum Display
Limits the number of relationships displayed in the Document Dashboard tree.

AUDIT TRAIL
This dialog controls whether or not Adept stores commands in the Audit Trail.

Enable Audit Trail
When checked, Adept will collect and store the commands that affect the state of a document or library.


Audit trail Options
This area controls which commands will be stored in the Audit Trail.
Display Events for each Checkbox
To see a complete list of the Audit Trail commands controlled by this dialog, click the button Display Events for each Checkbox. The resulting list, displayed in text document can be scanned directly or copied and pasted into Excel and sorted.
Note: Click Help for a list of commands included in each Audit Trail option.
FULL TEXT SEARCH

Enable FTS
This is the master switch that enables Full Text Search. Adept will begin extracting Content Information from the selected documents and store it in an Index File. You must also enable FTS on each library to be included.
Extensions for Full Text Search
Determines which extensions to Include or Exclude in the Full Text Search.
Notes: To search all extensions, select Exclude and leave it blank.
When configuring FTS, do not include 3D model documents in the FTS extraction. If they are included, they will stall the process since there is no text to be extracted. If Exclude is selected, be sure to add:
. SLDPRT. PRT. IAM. IPN. SLDASM. ASM. IPT

ACTIVE DIRECTORY

Active Directory Polling
Enable Polling
Set the amount of time that will elapse between synchronization checks. After this period, Adept Server will check Active Directory and see what has changed. The polling interval is set in hours and minutes (ex:1h 30m).
If the enable checkbox is clear, the Polling intervals will be disabled, and time set to 0.
Note: The polling interval must not be less than 5 minutes or greater than 168 hours.
Change Notification
Enable Notification
When notification is enabled, an email is sent to the recipient whenever Active Directory makes a change in Adept's user table. In order to send the email notification, you must set up the SMTP server from the Server SMTP.
Adept response to events in Active Directory
When new users are discovered in Active Directory Groups
When Adept Server detects a user in an Active Directory Linked Group that has already been linked to Adept, that user will be added to the Linked Group in Adept. If there is a new user in the Group who was not previously imported into Adept, the resulting action is determined by the option Create a new Adept user account.
If Create New User is enabled, then Adept will attempt to create a new user. In attempting to create the user, Adept first checks to if a user of that first name and last name already exists in Adept. If it does, the User will be linked and added to the Adept Group. If it does not, the user will be Created and added to the Adept Group.


If Create New User is disabled, no new user will be added, and no attempt will be made to link an existing user.

TRANSMITTAL & REPORT

Sending Transmittal Options
Require that all attachments are approved (status if IN)
When checked, only documents with an IN status can be attached to the Transmittal. When unchecked, any Adept status is allowed.
Allow Sender to edit email addresses
When checked, sender is allowed to edit the To email address.

When unchecked, the To email address cannot be changed.

Write Transmittal summary to memo field
When checked, all fields on template will be written to the Memo tab.
Date Rendering in Both Transmittal and Report templates
Render dates using Adept format (ignore date format on template)


When checked, any date field on the transmittal form will be formatted according to the selected Date Display Format on the Global User tab. (see above)
Quick and Report Templates
When you create a formatted report using Collaborate > Reports > Quick Report, Adept uses a predetermined template to format data that appears in your window. The default template is selected here. Because the Audit Trail Quick Report uses a different set of options than the document quick report, you must choose a default template for each type.

USER CIRCLES

When there is a large number of users, the length of User lists can grow large. This should not be a problem in most user lists throughout Adept because most lists will automatically be limited to those users who have the rights to participate in the operation.
Enable User Circles
When this checked, the number of users on their Excluded list in Share Manager is reduced. Each user's User Circle consists of all members of all Library Access Groups in which the user is also a member plus all members of personal groups in which the user is also a member.
Excluded Groups
User Circles may grow very large if your installation includes groups with a large number of members. For example, if you happen to have a Library Access Group that contains every member of your Adept site (an all-user's group), then every member's User Circle will also include all users. To reduce the size of User Circles, you can exclude very large groups from the calculation.


User Circle Analysis
Select the User Circle Analysis button to generate a text report that shows a list of users, and the size of their user circles.

LOCALIZATION

Select the languages you wish to make available to users. Note: You cannot unselect English. Users can then choose their own language on the Login dialog, as well as from the Adept Options > General.


TROUBLESHOOTING
This option should be used only at the direction of Synergis Helpdesk. Troubleshooting is available to all users.


Performance Test...
Another diagnostic utility is a predefined set of performance tests that execute a series of Adept actions, gather metrics on those actions, and create a report. The contents of the report can be used by Synergis helpdesk and development to identify areas of Adept that are experiencing slowness which can impact the user experience with Adept. This command must be used only in accordance with specific instructions from Synergis Helpdesk.













ADMINISTRATION
ADDITONAL FEATURES
(PART 1)



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Purpose	3
Update Local Tables	3
Administer All Shared Work Areas	3
Maintenance	4
Lock System	4
Unlock the System	5
Email Broadcast	6
Serialize	6
Audit Trail Search	6
Versions over Version Depth	7
Verify File Linkage	8
Count Current Logins	9
Administrative Reports	9
Added Document/ Deleted Document	10
Active Directory	10
Admin Daily Brief	10
Audit Trail	11
Database Counts	11
Groups	12
Lists	12
Login	13
Missing Relationships	13
System Report	14
Work Areas	14
Workflow	15
Database Analysis	15
Index for Parents and Children	16
Set Selected Relationships to: Float, Fix, Dock	16
Database Repair	16
Maintenance - Troubleshooting	16
Clear Tags	16
Inbox Membership and Trouble Shooting	16
View System Log	18
Verbose FTP	18
Verbose Server Info	18
Additional UGLA Features	19
Enable/Disable User(s)	19
Copy Setting to Selected Users	19
Display Disabled User Works Areas	20
Library Shortcut Command Menu	20
View Tree with	21
Identify Empty Libraries	21
Delete Empty Libraries or Convert Libraries to Folders	22
Refresh Full Text Search Indices	22
Library Structure and Permissions for a Direct Vault	23
Checked Library	23
Unchecked Library (Open)	23
Practice/Questions	24

PURPOSE
This section describes different configuration options for the Adept Administrator:
* Local Tables
* Shared Work Area Administration
* Audit Trail
* Verify File Linkage
* Out of the Box Administrative Reports
* Additional UGLA Options

UPDATE LOCAL TABLES
Adept stores administrative information in local tables on each workstation. When admins make changes on a server, a flag notifies the client on a machine that tables are not current. When a client attempts to perform an operation, it detects local tables are not current and will download new ones as needed. User windows may close and reopen during the update. Local administrative tables are located in:

C:\Users\<user>\AppData\Roaming\Synergis\Adept\Support\Tmpfiles\<Data_Source_Name>\<WorkAreaName>

Events that trigger this update:
* Changes to Library rights
* Changes to Group membership
* Changes to Shared Work Area settings
* Change Memo tab name

ADMINISTER ALL SHARED WORK AREAS
An Adept Administrator or Shared Work Area Administrator can administer any Shared Work Area.

Tab: Admin > Manage > Shared Work Areas
Tab: System > Administer > Shared Work Areas



MAINTENANCE
Some Administrative functions require that all user be logged off:
* changing database fields in Designer
* changing a Library path
* running a clean backup

The Lock System for Maintenance command forces all users off the system. Logins are disabled until the system is unlocked using Unlock System.
Lock System

Tab: System > Administer > Lock/Unlock System

Any user still logged in will be listed.
* Enter a Password of your choice.
* (optional) Enter a message that will appear to all users currently logged in.



Desktop Users
Adept closes after clicking OK to the second message.


Task PaneAutomtically logged off and the following message appears.







Web ClientAutomatically logged off and the following message appears.
* Select Begin Logoff Notification. Adept begins to log off users. If a Desktop Client user is busy, Adept waits and periodically tries again. The frequency of polling is set in the Admin Options dialog, Seconds between Inbox and logoff tests. When this option is set to 0, users are logged off immediately.

When all users are logged off, Click OK and the following message appears:

Note: Before making database field changes in Designer, be sure to Stop the Adept Service.

Unlock the System
When all maintenance has been completed, be sure to Unlock the system.


EMAIL BROADCAST
Permits an administrator to contact all Adept users at the same time. All users must have an email address in their user profile.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Miscellaneous > Email Broadcast




SERIALIZE
You will be issued a new Authorization Code when any changes are made to the number of desktop or Explorer seats or when adding Replication Binary Differencing. Enter the new information in to the Serialize dialog. This can be done while Adept is running and while users are logged in.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Miscellaneous > Serialize

Note: Adept displays warnings prior to expiration at 60, 45, 30, 15, 5 days prior.
After expiration, only ADM is able to log in.

AUDIT TRAIL SEARCH
This search allows the administrator to generate reports on specific Commands, Users, and Libraries for a specific date or timeframe.

Tab: Admin > Search > Audit Trail


Selecting a Type of Command filters the list of commands available on the Command list.



You can search the Audit Trail by:
* Type of Command
* Specific Command
* User (name)
* Library (name)
* On a date (use same date for both dates)
* On or After a date (specify an "after" date)
* On or Before a date (specify a "before" date)
* Between two dates (specify both dates.)
* Include Filename in results
* Include Archived records

Note: The Audit Trail results window can be exported using File > Export > Save List as Text

VERSIONS OVER VERSION DEPTH
The Version Depth determines how many Versions to store for each document. Version Depth is set in the Library Profile for each library.


When you reach the maximum number of Versions allowed by the Version Depth for that library, the next Version will cause Adept to delete the oldest version. When a version is being referenced by another document (ex: a child document), it will not be deleted.

To search for occurrences where documents were permitted beyond the Version Depth, select the Versions over Depth command:

Tab: Admin > Search > Versions over Depth




VERIFY FILE LINKAGE
Confirms the link between the Adept record and the file in the vault location.
When Adept is used correctly to manage files, Adept records are kept up-to-date, linking to the files associated with each record. However, it is possible for someone with network access rights to sidestep Adept and access the file directly through Windows. You can verify linkage for all libraries, multiple libraries, or one library.

  Best Practice Tip: Perform Verify Linkage regularly to be sure your Adept system points to the correct documents on the disk.
> Maintenance > Miscellaneous > Verify Linkage

The Verify File Linkage command:
* Verifies that a file exists for each linked record
* If there are any broken links, the font color for that record turns gray and the Verified field column is automatically added to the Search Results:
Ł Document missing from: Hold
Ł Document missing from: Library
Ł Document missing from: Versions
Ł Document missing from: Work area

* Does not search Adept Archived files

To redisplay the list of broken links, you can right-click in a Search Card and select Failed Verification.

To repair the broken links, you can:
* Restore the documents from your network system backups
* If the Adept database record is no longer needed, delete it


COUNT CURRENT LOGINS
Provides the number of seats being used at the moment.

Tab: Admin > Search > Count Logins


ADMINISTRATIVE REPORTS

Tab: System > Maintenance > Reports


Added Document/ Deleted Document
	
Note: An Active Library Set will affect the results of these reports

Active Directory
Lists all Audit Trail entries relating to Active Directory activity. And all Adept users linked to Active Directory.


Admin Daily Brief
A quick overview of important activity since it was last run. Some items in the report include number of empty libraries, deleted files, Login Report, and added files. Added files will be shown the Search Results window.



Audit Trail
Provides an overview of Audit Trail command activity by user and command.


Database Counts
Displays a count of records in various Adept tables. It could be useful for analyzing database issues.




Groups
Lists all Groups in Adept and the members for each group


Lists
This report lists the sharable objects in Adept, such as named Favorite Lists and Column Sets, and also shows who these objects have been shared with.



Login
Lists all users, the Adept version they were running the last time they logged in, the date and time they last logged in and their workstation IP address.


Missing Relationships
Generates a report listing all missing children.



System Report
Detailed report of the Users, Groups and Work Area

Work Areas
Lists each user's Work Areas, including path.



Workflow
This report lists the name of each Workflow, the groups assigned as Reviewers, the name of each step in that Workflow, and the options assigned to that step. It also lists error conditions, such as when a document has received a Time Out Alert, when Reviewers do not have Viewing Rights, or if there are more Approvals required for a step than there are Reviewers in the step. Documents that require attention are listed in the Search Results. You can get more information about these documents by clicking on any one and looking in the Document Dashboard Workflow tab.


DATABASE ANALYSIS
You can have a total of 900 fields in your database (including System fields). This report provides a detailed analysis of field usage in the Document database, Version database, or History database.

Tab: System > Database Analysis






INDEX FOR PARENTS AND CHILDREN
Updates the tables that display the parent/child symbols if the symbols that indicate parent/child relationships are incorrect.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Miscellaneous > Index for Parent and Children




SET SELECTED RELATIONSHIPS TO: FLOAT, FIX, DOCK
Changes the Version Locking for all the children of the selected parents.

Tab: Edit > Relationships > Set All to Float/Fix/Doc



DATABASE REPAIR
If you receive a write record error due to a bad key value, it indicates that there is a database record that has been damaged. The Repair tool will examine the database and offer to repair records that exhibit the problem then generate a report of the records that have been changed. Before running Database Repair, be sure to backup your database.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Miscellaneous > Database Repair



MAINTENANCE - TROUBLESHOOTING
Clear Tags
If Adept terminates unexpectedly, the database locks the tag information. When a file is tagged, no one can access the record.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Troubleshoot > Clear Tags



Inbox Membership and Trouble Shooting
This command is similar to Administer Shared Work Areas in that it allow the Adept Administrator to modify a user's Inbox. In some situations, the Administrator will want to reset a user's Inbox or set a group of users with a similar Inbox list.

> Maintenance


The resulting dialog displays a list of users. Select one or more of these, using the Windows convention of control and/or shift clicking.


When you are finished selecting the users to change, click the Configure button. The resulting dialog is identical to the Share dialog. Using the list on the right, labeled Exclude, select users or personal groups and click the left-arrow to move them to the list on the left. This will be the list of users who will be included in the Inbox of the person or persons you are modifying. When you click Okay, Adept will apply the changes you made in this dialog to all the selected users.

You may need to reset or alter a user's settings. To do so, select the option "Show Troubleshooting Controls." This reveals a number of troubleshooting operations you can perform on the selected users.

Reset Inbox - Click Reset Inbox to reset the user's Inbox. After resetting, the selected users will only be able to see their own Inbox.
Delete Col Sets/window - This discards all column sets created by the selected users. If the user has shared Column Sets, those will also be removed. Column sets that were shared with the users will be unchanged.
Delete Searches - This discards discard Searches, Personal Groups, or Library Sets created by this user, but will not remove objects shared with the user.
Delete Personal Groups - This discards Personal Groups created by the user, but will not remove objects shared with the user.
Delete Library Sets - This discards Library Sets created by the user, but will not remove objects shared with the user.
Delete All .als Lists - Every time a user sends a list of files, the list is stored in the server. This is necessary in order to maintain the list for reference. However, the lists accumulate over time, and are removed after a specified timeout period.


Note: This command deletes all .als lists in the system. It is not limited to any specific user. As a result, the command should be used with caution, and only after you have confirmed that users are not relying on these lists

View System Log
Text file that records all Server and user activity.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Trouble Shoot







Verbose FTP
Displays FTP commands that may help in diagnosing a problem.
> Trouble Shoot > Verbose FTP











Verbose Server Info
This window is only available when the Adept Server is run as an application. This information is in addition to that in the System Log.
Tab: System > Maintenance > Trouble Shoot


ADDITIONAL UGLA FEATURES
Enable/Disable User(s)
* The Disable User(s) command suspends a User's access to Adept.
* The Enable User(s) command restores the User's access to Adept.
* Use Disable User(s) instead of deleting a user. Deleting a user name will purge the database.
These additional commands are available from the shortcut menu when you right-click on any
User.


Copy Setting to Selected Users
Used by Adept Administrator to provide users with initial settings and to replace a user's profile in the event their settings become corrupt and will not allow them to log in.

 Best Practice Tip: An Adept Administrator may choose to create a separate login profile specifically for the purpose of establishing preferences for user options, column headings, and column sets, ribbon set, etc. When the Admin needs to Copy Settings to Selected Users, they log in to the special account, select one or more users, then right-click to select Copy Settings to Selected users.

Settings that are copied include:
From Adept Options > General
* Remember column sorting
* Re-open active windows on Login
* During Assign show me who is logged in
* Set Information Source to Library on login
* Double-click action
* Work In Progress Color Setting

Adept Options > User Display
* FileGuide: Display all files below the selected leaf

Other:
* Current column headings for Search, FileGuide, and Work Area
* Column Sets (any existing column sets will be overwritten by new ones).

Note: Use this cautiously. This command overwrites any settings already in place on the selected user's workstation.


Display Disabled User Works Areas
When a user is disabled in Adept, an Admin is able to view documents that are remaining in the disabled users Work Area. The Admin can then decide what needs to be done with the documents in the work area.

Tab: System > Maintenance > Trouble Shoot






Library Shortcut Command Menu
Additional commands are available from the shortcut menu when you right-click in the Library pane in the Library Administration window.



View Tree with
Use to change the way Adept displays your Libraries in the Library Browser.
Library Names	Library Folders


Identify Empty Libraries
This command will insert a glyph with a red line and generate a report of all empty libraries:





Delete Empty Libraries or Convert Libraries to Folders
Only execute this command when the Adept system is locked and users are not actively working in Adept.

Note: An average of 50 libraries per min. can be deleted/converted, length of time to delete/convert libraries depends on the performance of your system.

Refresh Full Text Search Indices
Use this command occasionally to clean up and update the Full Text Search Indices.

A Refresh performs the following:
* extracts text from any document that should have been extracted but was not
* adds a new library to the index documents
* removes any indexes that are no longer needed
(ex. No longer allow searching in files with a specific file extension)
* resolves matches between all documents and all FTS indexes

Reasons why you may want to Refresh the Indices:
* If the server that holds the FTS indexes was offline, files could have been signed in, without FTS extraction.
* If the FTS option was disabled overall, or for particular Libraries.
* If you have changed the extensions of files you want to include in FTS.
* Periodically to clean up and update the Full Text Search Indexes.


LIBRARY STRUCTURE AND PERMISSIONS FOR A DIRECT VAULT
As a Direct Vault points directly to a Share on a Server, the following are the network rights suggested.

Checked Library
The Folder Structure is Shared so it can be browsed through Windows Explorer. In this case, security of the documents relies on Network Permission.
Unchecked Library (Open)
The Folder Structure is Shared so it can be browsed through Windows Explorer. In this case, security of the documents relies on Network Permissions.



PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 25, which is included alongside this document.













ADMINISTRATION
ADDITIONAL FEATURES
(PART 2)


TABLE OF CONTENTS
Designer Utilities	3
Clear Logins	3
Clear History	3
Purge History to Depth	4
Manage Audit Trail	4
Clear ADM Password	7
Repair Database	7
Restore Procedures and Functions	8
Adept Archive	8
Adept Archive Restore	9
Local Data Cache	9
Configuring Vault	10
Adept File System	10
FTP for all operations except Copy and View	11
FTP for all operations	12
Local Vault Mirror	13
Translate Strings	14
Print using PublishWave*optional	15
Practice/Questions	17

DESIGNER UTILITIES
There are 7 utilities used by the Adept Administrator to perform a variety of maintenance functions. In the Designer, Open the Database the select File > Utilities


Clear Logins
This utility is used to clear login flag when login appears to be stuck. This could occur when a workstation crashes and Adept is unable to do a logout. Select a user login from the list and select Clear Selected. To clear all users currently logged in, select Clear All. This command does not force legitimate logins off the system.


Clear History
This utility clears all records in the History database. A History record is generated when the History Depth option (library profile) is > 0 AND you check out, check in, or approve a document. Be sure to back up the database before running this utility. Adept is unable to recover History once it is deleted. This utility can be run periodically for maintenance purposes.



Purge History to Depth
This utility is used to clear a number of History records to adhere to the History Depth limit. As an Admin, you set the maximum number of History records that can be saved in the History database (Modify Library profile - History Depth option). There may be cases where History records are saved beyond the maximum.


Manage Audit Trail...
This utility controls the Audit Trail Table. As the Audit Trail grows larger, it could affect access time and interfere with performance. Use this utility to:
* Transfer Audit Trail records from the main database to an archive database.
* Create an XML export of selected audit trail records.
* Delete selected Audit Trail records from the main or archive database.
Notes:
Ł You must have the Archive database created in SQL.
Ł You must stop the Adept Service before running Manage Audit Trail.
Ł You can also reduce the Audit Trail size by limiting the number of commands saved. See Edit > Options > Audit Trail.
Ł Running Audit Trail Archive as a Scheduled Task only allows Transfer of Records.
Ł All Manage Audit Trail activities are permanently entered in the active Audit Trail and cannot be moved or deleted.

In the first dialog, choose search criteria to select records in the Audit Trial. Select OK



* Search Criteria
You can filter what is moved out the Audit Trail Archive.
* Find Records on or before
All records earlier than this date will be Archived.
* Select Command Group
Include all commands in the selected group.
* Select Command
Select a specific command.
* Search Audit Trail Table
When checked, the current Audit Trail Tables will be included in your search. You cannot delete records using this option.
* Search Archive Table
When checked, The Archive Table will be included in your search. You cannot transfer records using this option.
Note: If both Search Audit Trail Table and Search Archive Table are selected, you can only create an XML report
* Apply Timestamp selection
Calculates number of months you are archiving and stores that interval to be used when you schedule Archive Audit Trail. If you run Archive Audit Trail in the Windows Scheduler, Adept runs the Archive utility using this interval.
* Apply command group and command selection
Applies the search to the Window Scheduler

The next dialog shows the Archive search results and allows you to indicate what you want to do with the results:



* Number of records found
Ł in Audit Trail Table in Adept
Ł in Archived Audit Trail Table in <databasename>ARC
* Export Records to XML File
When checked, exports selection to an XML file. Use the ellipsis (...) to indicate where the XML will be saved. The default file name is: AuditArchive_<date>_<time> (Ex: AuditArchive_11-7-2019_10-44-39_PM) Note: You cannot use the XML file to import records back into the Audit Trail.
* Transfer Records from Audit Trail Table to Archived Audit Trail Table
When selected, move selected Audit Trail records to Audit Trail Archive database.
* Important Information - Delete Records from Audit Trail
To activate the Delete Control:
Ł first Read the warning.
Ł check the box for I Understand.
Ł select Delete records from Audit Trail to enable the ability to delete records from the database.
Transfer Records is disabled and Delete Records is enabled.
Caution: Be sure Audit Trail data is saved in XML or another backup format. Delete cannot be reversed.

After selecting OK, the next dialog requests a confirmation of your selections. Selecting Yes executes the Archive.


If you selected Export Records To XML File, the following message is displayed when completed.



If you selected Transfer Records, the following message is displayed when completed.


Select Exit to close the command. A log file is also saved to C:\Program Files\Synergis\Adept\Utilities folder.

Clear ADM Password
Use this utility if you forget the ADM password. This clears the ADM password. Be sure to immediately log in as ADM and set a new password.


Repair Database...
This utility is used to check the Adept tables for inconsistencies in pointers among tables. This utility also tries to repair broken links. Run this as part of your regular maintenance.



Restore Procedures and Functions
Only run this utility when asked by Synergis Helpdesk


ADEPT ARCHIVE
 
After selecting the files to be archives, select Files from the Archive menu. The selected Documents will be moved into an archive area for backup.

NOTE: Keep the files in the folder structure created by the Archive command. If this is not kept in the same structure Archive Restore will not work properly.


Adept Archive Restore
 
After selecting the files to be restored, select Restore from the Archive menu.

Notes:
* Documents must have a status of IN to be archived.
* Only Archivers or Administrators may access this command.


LOCAL DATA CACHE


Tab: System > Administer


Each workstation maintains a local copy of the Library access settings eliminating the need to check the server each time a user makes a request. When an administrator changes the Admin tables on the server, all user workstations must be updated.

The Local Data Cache (LDC) is a directory the administrator sets up on each Local Area Network that is in use by Adept users. Then, when the tables must be updated, they are copied down to the Local Data Cache, and then each workstation in that Local Area Network can access the tables from the LAN rather than the server.



Local Data Cache Name - Use a naming convention that will be descriptive of its location. This name will appear on the Administer Local Data Caches list.
Local Network Path for Data Cache - Folder where update files will be copied and stored.
Note: All users at each location must have read/write access to this folder.
IP Address - The IP of any workstation at that location. This will be used to calculate the value for Host address range.
Note: User IP addresses can be found in the Login Report and the Audit Trail by searching Log In.
Subnet Mask - Select a Subnet Mask from the dropdown list.
Host address range - This value is calculated based on the IP Address and the Subnet Mask.
Subnet ID - Calculated from first three IP Address groups.
Notes: - Indicates Class Address based on the first IP Address group: 0 - 127	Class A
128 - 191	Class B
192 - 223	Class C

CONFIGURING VAULT
Adept File System
Adept File System (AFS) is an inter-computer communication system similar to an FTP vault. AFS allows Library replication across multiple AFS Vault location.



Server - DNS name of FTP server or IP address.
Note: This entry and the Server name on the AFS Server Admin dialog must be the same.
Port - The port that Adept communicates with the AFS server.
Note: This entry and the AFS Server Admin Port number must be the same.
Configure - Opens AFS Server Admin dialog.
Note: AFS Server must be running.

FTP for all operations except Copy and View
This Vault must be shared and users must have appropriate Read/Copy rights to each Library. For this option, both the Direct Access and FTP Access sections are filled in.

FTP Access
Host - DNS name of FTP server. Otherwise use IP address.
User - Local user account that Adept will use to access the Vault.
Password - Local user account password.
Port - Port that Adeot will use to access the Vault.
Connection Type
Standard FTP (ZIP Transfer if available) - Windows IIS FTP
FTPS - Secure FTP over SSL/TSL - Must use supported FTP Server.
Note: To take advantage of Compression and FTPS, check the Adept System Requirements for information on supported FTP Servers.
Compression - If enabled, will engage if connection takes longer than specified.
Compression On at Millisec - Value that determines when Compression will be used.


Passive Mode - If unchecked, FTP functions in an active mode. Adept sends the PORT command with the port number to the server. If checked, Adept sends a PASV command to the FTP server. In response, the server sends back to the Adept client a packet of information that includes the server's IP address and the port number that the server wants Adept to use. The Adept client then transfers the data across the specified port.
Note: This option is required to support Hyperlinks, AutoCAD Map queries and AutoCAD LT Xrefs.

FTP for all operations
Access to this Vault is through Adept and FTP only.




LOCAL VAULT MIRROR


Tab: System > Administer


To reduce traffic between remote locations, your company may use vault replication or mirroring technology to maintain multiple copies of the Adept Vault. If enabled, when a user logs into Adept, Adept will determine if the computer is on a subnet defined for a Local Vault Mirror and will redirect you to the local copy of the vault. This is very useful for users who travel between different company locations.

Local Vault Mirror Name - Use a naming convention such as the location of your office or town.
Local Vault Mirror Definition - This list contains all defined vaults. If a user logs in through one of these IP's, Adept uses the Subnet to redirect the user to the local vault.
IP Address - The IP address of any workstation at that location. This will be used to calculate the range of IP's that will need to access this Local Vault Mirror.
Note: User IP addresses can be found in the Login Report and the Audit Trail by searching Log In.
Subnet Mask - Select a Subnet Mask from the dropdown list. This will be applied the IP Address to calculate the range of IP address for this particular Local Vault. Host Address Range - This is calculated based on the IP Address and Subnet Mask.
Subnet ID - Calculated from first three IP Address groups
Note: The Local Vault Mirror must be the same type as the Original Vault: FTP for all operations, FTP for all operations except Copy and View or Direct for all operations.


TRANSLATE STRINGS
If Adept supports your language, your users are already able to display menus and dialogs in their local language. In addition, some strings in Adept dialogs are defined by the System Administrator. Use Adept's Translate Admin-Defined Strings dialog to help you translate these strings. This allows you to create custom translations for a number of Admin-defined strings located in various places in the product.

When you run the command, Adept pulls these strings into a grid, and provides you with an opportunity to enter strings in other languages.


From the drop-down list at the top of the dialog, select the language you want to modify. For example, if you want to edit some of the values for Canadian French, select that language from the Language dropdown.



From the list on the left, select one of the following:
* Options
* Columns
* FileGuides
* Data Cards

When you select one of these, the corresponding values are displayed in the grid on the right.
Options - displays Email Subjects, Headers and Footers and Print Labels (Watermarks)
Columns - displays Column Names
FileGuides - displays View Names


Data Cards - displays Data Card Names, Data Card Tab Names, Data Card Prompt Values and the Memo Tab Name. The values you fill into these rows will become available whenever you select the target language.
Comments - The column labeled Comment is only displayed in the Translate tool to remind you of the meaning of each row. The strings in the Comment column do not appear anywhere else in the product.
Note: You can only edit the Comment column when you have selected English language. (It is assumed that English is the administrative language.)
From the File Menu
Export - Select Export to output an XML file with strings that can be translated by a third party translator. The file can also be edited by you,
Import from Translation Service - Indicate a file that was exported from the Translate Admin-Defined Strings command.

Without Translation Strings ConfiguredWith Translation Strings Configured	

PRINT USING PUBLISHWAVE*OPTIONAL
PublishWave is an add-on application used to print or publish documents:
* Manually (on demand)
* Automatically, based on certain (check in/approve) actions executed within Adept. The Adept Admin installs the PW Server and configures it by defining output devices, formats, and queues.
* Printed refers to hard copy output (paper)
* Publish refers to electronic output in formats such as PDF, TIF, DXF (AutoCAD only), and Parasolids (SOLIDWORKS only)

The conversion is done using the native applications:
* AutoCAD for DWG submissions
* Inventor for IDW submissions
* SOLIDWORKS for SLDDRW submission


* MS Word for .doc and .docx submissions
* Excel for .xls and .xlsx submissions
Note: CAD or Office applications must be installed and activated.

To print files using PublishWave:
* PublishWave PlugIn must be installed and configured on the workstation.
* Select Using PublishWave command from Document tab ribbon to configure as needed.
* Select documents and Select Print PublishWave command from Document tab ribbon or right-click on the selected documents and select Print Files.... The PublishWave PlugIn displays a dialog called a Job Request.
* The Job Request form lists the documents you selected and allows you to enter parameters to control the overall job as well as to control the output of each document.

The job request form also controls the behavior of PublishToAdept. You can set the parameters to return the files to an Adept Library.

Job Options - applies to all files in the job request. Server and queue list is pre- defined by Admin. PDF Post-processing combines several input files and publishes into one combined pdf. It also allows you to set up PublishToAdept options.
Document Options - allows you to adjust settings for each documents (target output device, rotation, scale, size, sheets or layouts to print/publish, AutoCAD page setups, PublishToAdept parameters)
Save - saves the job request configuration to a file for future use
Restore - restores all job options and the saved document list
Restore Options - only restores the options saved in the job file (not the files). This allows you to create a series of saved jobs where the options are used frequently, then restore those options for usage with other documents.


Sort - when checked, allows for manual sorting of documents in the document list using drag and drop. When unchecked, the ascending and descending options can be used.
* After setting options, select Post to process the request. The user will receive a confirmation message dialog.
Note: See the PublishWave User Guide for more information

PRACTICE/QUESTIONS
For practical exercises and an assessment of your understanding, please open your 'Adept Admin Essentials Workbook' to Practice Question 26, which is included alongside this document.


Adept









GLYPHS & SYMBOLS


























Synergis Software


           Synergis Software 18 South 5TH Street, Suite 100
Quakertown, PA 18951
+1 215.302.3000, 800.836.5440
www.SynergisSoftware.com Adept Version 11.1.0



Table of Contents
Document Relationship Information	3
Document Additional Data	3
In the Work Area	3
In the Favorites View	4
In the FileGuide View	4
In the Inbox View	4
In the Library Browser View	4
In the Search Results View	5
In the Document Dashboard	5
In the UGLA	6
Group RIGHTS	7
AFS Replication Status	8

Document Relationship Information
GlyphDefinitionDocument is a Parent (ex: assembly or drawing)Document is a Child (ex: part or xref)Document is both a Parent and a Child (ex: sub-assembly)
Document is a Parent with extended information (ex:
Configurations, Sheets, Layouts)Document is a Child with extended information (ex:
Configurations, Sheets, Layouts)
Document has extended information (ex: Configurations, Sheets, Layouts)
If any of the above icons have this overtop of it then a child
of the document cannot be foundDocument Additional Data
GlyphDefinition
Indicates that this record contains text in the Memo tab in
Data Card
(Red vertical line) Indicates that this record includes Markups or comments
(Green) Indicates that this record includes Memo data
from a Synergis Adept Custom programNote: If the symbols that indicate parent/child relationships are not displaying correctly, an Adept Administrator should run Index for Parents and Children from System tab > Maintenance > Miscellaneous

In the Work Area
GlyphDefinitionA Work Area on a local disk
A Work Area on a network disk
A Shared Work Area
Work Area location is missing or invalid
If any of the above icons have this overtop of it, indicates a
document is missing

In the Favorites View
GlyphDefinition
A Saved search - select from tree in left pane to rerun the
saved searchA Saved search that has been shared with youA saved Favorites listA Favorites list that I have sharedA shared Favorite list shared with me where I have Edit
(pencil) and Sharing (key) rightsIn the FileGuide View
GlyphDefinition
A FileGuide folder, not selected
A FileGuide folder, selected (opened and displayed)In the Inbox View
GlyphDefinition
An Inbox
Displays Assigned documentsDisplays Out documentsDisplays documents needing ReviewIn the Library Browser View
GlyphDefinition
A Vault
A Checked LibraryAn Unchecked Library
A Library FolderAn Open Library

In the Search Results View
GlyphDefinition
A Search ResultA List Result
A Recently Used ResultIn the Document Dashboard
GlyphDefinition
The current document is not selected, but part of a
relationship
The current document is selected and has no relationships
The current document is selected and is an
Assembly/Parent
The current document is selected and is a Part/Child
(arrow in upper left)
The current document is selected and is a Subassembly, or has both a Parent and a Child (arrow in upper left)
The document is editable by the user
The document is part of a circular reference (ex: a part
depends on an assembly which depends on the part)The document is an underlayThe document is an overlay
The document relationship is Fixed at the current version
The document relationship is set to Float to the most
current version
The document relationship is set to Dock
The document is IN; brighter color indicates it is selected
The document is New
The document is OutThe document is on Hold
The document is fixed at a previous specified version
The document is IN and is a manual relationship (not
created by a CAD application)

GlyphDefinitionThe document is New and is a manual relationship.The document is Out and is a manual relationship
The document is a Versioned file and is a manual
relationshipThe document is on Hold and is a manual relationship
The document is ArchivedThe document created by the Transmittal process (red T)
The document was created by the Transmittal process and includes children
A red circle with a cross through it indicates that this relationship is broken; Adept is unable to resolve the link between files. The red circle and line are superimposed
over any other icon that would apply to this document.
In the UGLA
GlyphDefinitionUser holds a ProViewer licenseUser is a Workflow AdministratorUser is a Shared Work Area AdministratorUser is restricted to a specific Data CardUser is an Adept Administrator (yellow key)User has a locked License (green dot)User is manually entered; not linked to an Active Directory
Account.User is manually entered and has been disabled (red X)User is linked to an Active Directory Account (red shirt, left- facing)
User is linked to an Active Directory Account that has been deleted from Active Directory

A purple box around the user indicates they are a Reviewer in the Web Client. A yellow box around the user indicates they are a Creator in the Web Client. No box indicates an
Explorer in the Web Client.

GlyphDefinition
Group is manually entered and not linked to an Active
Directory GroupIndicates a Direct Vault
Indicates an FTP VaultIndicates an AFS Vault (Adept File System) - can be set to replicateChecked LibraryUnchecked LibraryOpen Library
Library contains no documents - to locate all, right-click in left pane of Library Administration window and select
Identify Empty LibrariesNo rights assigned (gray) Note: All users have FULL rightsInherited rights (purple)
Full Text Search (black dot) is enabled for that library
Filtering of Children (black square) is enabled for that library
User does not have access to Library
Group RIGHTS
GlyphDefinition
Group has Viewing level rights to LibraryGroup has Editing level rights to LibraryGroup has Checking level rights to Library
Group has Document Management rights in LibraryGroup has Library Administrator rights to Library Tree.


AFS Replication Status
GlyphDefinitionReplication is inherited but rules are not setReplication is inherited and turned offReplication is inherited and turned on
Replication rules are not set
Replication is turned off
Replication is turned on




















































































































































