Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13 Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data
13.1 Extract Data - Overview

152 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.2 Resolving Relationships

155 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.3 Re-extract

157 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.4 Extraction State

Search for

158 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

 

13.5 Clear Extracted Info

159 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.6 Synchronize - Importing Legacy Documents

160 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.7 Synchronize Resume

13.8 Relationship Extraction

162 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.9 To Re-Sync an existing Library

163 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

 

13.10 Reset Extraction State

13.11 Unresolved Relationships

164 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.12 To Synchronize a New Library
 

13.13 Edit Search Order for Unresolved Children

165 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

 

13.14 Update Document

166 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.15 Refresh Full Text Search Indexes

13.16 Batch Open and Save

168 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.17 Image Extraction

175 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Adept User Guide Extract, Synchronize, & Update Document Data

13.18 Mismatched System Fields

176 © 2023 Synergis Technologies, LLC



Database Introduction Page 1 of 13

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Database Introduction
A database is composed of many records, one record for each item you are tracking. Within each record is 
stored additional information about the document. The data associated with each document is called 
"metadata." Each piece of information in a record is called a "field". For example, there's a field for the size of 
the document, the date it was created, etc. There are also custom fields, that track information about each 
document, such as the project, or the name of the designing engineer.

Some fields such as the document name or size are required by all Adept databases and are called System 
Fields. Your Adept installation also has Custom Fields that contain information appropriate to your particular 
needs. The Administrator adds custom fields such as part number, comments, the name of the engineer who 
authorized the drawing, or the department name.

In Adept you display fields on the computer screen using on-screen forms called Data Cards. You can have 
different Data Cards so that some fields are displayed on one Data Card, and other fields are displayed on a 
different Data Card. Using different Data Cards is like looking at your database through different windows.

Since there are many pieces of information about each document, you might want to simplify the display by 
showing some fields and not showing others. For example, if one field contains a comment on the quality of 
work, you may want this field to be visible only to managers. You choose which data to display by selecting 
the Data Card that displays the information.

A database record does not necessarily need to be linked to a document. In Adept, you can have Unlinked 
Records, that store information but are not linked to a document.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Administer Database Fields
You can change the properties of custom database fields by using the Administer Database Fields dialog in the 
Admin menu.

Note to Database Administrators: Do not edit Adept fields directly through the SQL 
Administration Tool. Instead, use the options presented in Adept Designer to modify 
Adept tables.

Note: Extreme caution must be used when making edits to restricted lists due to the ability 
for Adept to include restricted lists in the configuration of Required Fields, Related 
Fields, and AutoName. It is the responsibility of the person making edits to restricted 
lists to ensure that those edits do not create incompatibilities with the usage of the 
edited restricted lists with Required Fields, Related Fields, and AutoName.

Note: Before creating a restricted list, the Related Fields feature should be considered since 
the functionality of a restricted list can also be achieved as a single level related fields 
sequence while providing more functionality by allowing the restricted list to expand 
to have multiple levels at a later time. A restricted list cannot be used in the definition 
of a related field sequence.

Using this dialog, you can add or remove the following properties from database fields:

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 2 of 13

Extracted
Protected
Restricted

To hook up the Extracted fields to their values in the document, use the appropriate PlugIn. See the PlugIn 
choices under the Admin menu for more details.

To edit the Restricted value list, select the custom field in the Field list on the left, and enter the list in the 
Restricted Values box on the right. To keep the list in the ordered entered, check the option under Restricted. 

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

System Fields
System fields are part of every Adept database. They are used to track information required by Adept.

Users see the value of these fields, or any Adept fields, when the field is included on a Data Card. Users can 
view various fields by adding or changing their column display to show the value of this field. Add or change 
the column by right-clicking the column heading on the FileGuide, Search Results or Work Area window.

Note: Some of these fields, ending in the letters ID, are GUIDs, or Unique Identifiers that are 
database pointers that only have value for technical analysis and troubleshooting.

See also: Change Columns, Custom Fields, Designer

Here is a list of the System Fields with a short description.

Active Workflow Name of active workflow
Active Workflow Step Name of active workflow step
Added Date UTC date/time when this document was added to Adept
Adept Date UTC date/time of the most recent occurrence of one of these 

operations: New, Check In, Check Out, Final Approve, Extract, 
Copy, Create Revision, Archive, Restore, Assign, Unassign, 
Release Check Out, Acquire Check Out.

Adept Version # The Adept version number is used to determine the Adept 
version directory for this document. This number is not 
customizable.

Approved by Name of the Workflow Manager who approved the document.
Approved Date UTC date/time that the document was "Final Approved" and 

returned to the Library
Archive ID Document's archive volume name
Document Linkage U if unlinked, L if linked. Good for identifying and reporting on 

linked and unlinked documents.
Document Workflow Name of Document Workflow
Ext Document Extension. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 3 of 13

Extraction State Indicates if Relationship and Property/Attribute data has been 
successfully extracted from this document.

Extract Date UTC data/time when the field was extracted 
File ID Unique ID of the document's database record.
Filename Tracks a document's full name including the extension. This is the 

only system field that the Administrator can change the width. 
Include in this field enough characters to hold the dot plus up to 
8 characters for the extension. For example, a 70 character 
document name that might have a dot plus six character 
extension should have this field set to 77. You can set the width 
of this field from a minimum of 64 to a maximum of 240.

File Date UTC date/time of the document as recorded in the operating 
system

File Size Document size in bytes as is recorded on the operating system.
File Type Name File Type Name corresponds to the Adept Document Type, which 

is useful when establishing which application will be opened or 
will be used to view the document.

Greatest Active Version This flag is set to true for the version of a document that is the 
most recent. There may be any number of earlier dot versions 
that are not the greatest version. 

Has Extended Record True or false. True if this record contains extended data for 
configurations or layouts.

History Depth How many history transactions are logged into the history 
database for this document.

In Once True or false. True if this record has ever been checked in to a 
Library.

Is Child True or false. True if this record is the child of another record. 
(Could be a CAD created link or a manual relationship.)

Is Parent True or false. True if this record is the parent of another record. 
(Could be a CAD created link or a manual relationship.)

Last Owner Name of the last user who checked the document out. If the 
document is on Hold, Last Owner is the person who checked it in.

Library Comment 1, 2, 3 Library Comment 1, Library Comment 2, and Library Comment 3 
can be used to help you keep track of your libraries. The fields 
can be added to the Library Profile.

Library Folder This automatically displays the actual folder name (without 
extended path) in which the Library is located.

Library Name Document's Library name. Must be unique. May be hand edited, 
and may be automatically filled in from Path.

Library Path This automatically displays the directory path from the Vault 
down to the actual folder of the Library.

Major Version In the Adept Version #, the Major Version number is the number 
before the decimal point, so for example a document with Adept 
Version 1.7 would be Major Version 1.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 4 of 13

Memo Flags Memo Flags is a string that indicates the type of memo data that 
is stored in this record. In the string “PR#T###” P means it 
contains a thumbnail Preview, M means Markup, and T means 
text in the Memo field. L refers to Mobile Markup PDF 
documents. Please note that when performing searches on this 
field a leading asterisk should be used with the character of 
interest to find the desired documents.

Minor Version In the Adept Version #, the Minor Version number is the number 
after the decimal point, so for example a document with Adept 
Version 1.7 would be Minor Version 7.

Mismatch This flag checks for a mismatch in system data (Date, Time, Size) 
between Adept metadata and the Windows data about the 
underlying document.

Operation Code Internal use
Originator Name of the user who first checked document in to Workflow
Owner Long name of the document's owner.
Markup Comment Displays date and time the document was last marked up.
Scroll Table Recno Internal use
Sort Column Internal use
Source Table Internal use
Status Status of a document displays one of the following values: In, 

Out, OutLinkable, Tag/<Login ID>, Rdl/<Login ID>, Hold, Assign, 
AssignHold, Arc, Duplicate, New, Released, Deleted, or Revised.

Tagged by Name of the user who currently has the document tagged.
Vault ID Unique identifier to the Vault
Verified Verify command will set this field if there's a valid link between 

the database and the document.
Work Path Full path name of the current Work Area to which a document is 

checked out. Allows you to track the document's location, 
whether it is on the network or a local disk drive. This field is only 
filled out for a document that was checked out from a Library. 
New documents are not yet tracked.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Custom Fields
The Administrator adds custom fields to your database to track specific information for your document 
management needs. Custom fields are added in a separate program, the Adept Designer.

Custom fields are given a field name, field description, type, and width.

If the Administrator adds the field to a Data Card, the user sees the value of that field on the Data Card. The 
user can also change their column display to show the value of this field by right-clicking the column heading 
on the FileGuide, Search Results or Work Area window.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 5 of 13

Every custom field you add to the database will be included in every record. So for example, if you have 
100,000 records in your database and you add a field with 32 characters, this adds 3,200,000 characters. This 
additional storage takes up room on your network hard drive, and also must be downloaded to the 
workstation when records are sent to the client for displaying.

You can have at most a total of 900 fields in your database, including the System Fields. To optimize your 
custom fields, Administrators can use the Document Analysis command, selected on the System tab. This 
command shows the amount of usage for each custom field. If you have fields that contain less data than you 
anticipated, you can reduce the size of your custom fields accordingly.

See also: Change Columns, System Fields

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Extraction Field
The Adept Extraction field lets you automatically import values from supported documents into the Adept 
database. You can import attributes from Autodesk DWG, and properties from Inventor, SOLIDWORKS, 
MicroStation, and Microsoft Office. Users who have the appropriate Library Access Rights can also use Adept 
to send these values from Adept to the document. Using the Adept Update Document capability.

To track this metadata, first set up a custom field in the Adept Designer. Then, in Adept, use the Administer 
Database Fields dialog to give this field the property of Extraction. Once you have set up these fields in your 
Adept database, and enabled data extraction for the document type you want to track, Adept will check 
supported document types when you check them in or synchronize them. When Adept finds properties or 
attributes that are linked with Extraction fields, the value is copied from the document into the appropriate 
field in the database. When it checks Autodesk DWG attributes, it also must match the block name you 
specify.

Creating the Extraction Field
In the Designer, create a new field, giving it a field name, field width, and display name. Give it a type such as 
number, date, or character. Then set the Extraction type in the Administer Database Fields in the Adept 
Admin menu.

Mapping the Extraction Field with an Attribute or Property
Each document type for which Adept extracts data is controlled by its own PlugIn in the Admin menu. To link 
the Extraction field to the document use the appropriate PlugIn. For example to link an AutoCAD DWG 
Attribute use the AutoCAD DWG PlugIn Administration dialog box. To link to an Inventor Property, use the 
Inventor PlugIn Administration dialog box available from the Adept Admin menu when you have added this 
PlugIn. To link to a SOLIDWORKS Property, use the SOLIDWORKS PlugIn Administration dialog box available 
from the Adept Admin menu when you have added this PlugIn. To link to a Microsoft Office Word or Excel 
property see that topic.

For more information about extracting values from documents, see the topic Extract data.
For more information about updating documents see the topic, Update document.

Blanking an Extraction Field
Depending on the settings in the Properties/Attributes Option dialog, a blank value in a mapped property or 
attribute may or may not blank out the corresponding Extraction field in Adept. See the topic on Options: 
Properties/Attributes for more information.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 6 of 13

See also: Edit Extraction Field

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Edit Extraction Field
Extraction fields contain data that has been extracted from a document property or attribute. Typically, Adept 
does not allow users to edit Extraction fields. It would typically be a bad idea to change the Adept values for a 
field that is linked to a property or attribute, because after editing it the value in Adept’s Data Card would be 
different from the value in the document. Then the next time Adept extracts the value from the document, 
the value of the extraction field in the Data Card would be overwritten.

Adept protects you from accidentally editing Extraction fields. However, while you cannot edit these fields, 
they are still active to allow you to copy them. There are three circumstances in which Extraction fields can be 
edited.

When you update documents you can edit Extraction Fields
When you are authorized to update the value of the field in the document, you can select the Update 
Document command on the Data Card. This opens up Extraction fields for editing. When you save the Data 
Card, your changes are written out to the document.

Ability to edit an Extraction Field depends on whether or not it is mapped
Extraction fields on the Data Card behave differently depending on the type of document you are 
displaying. If the Data Card displays information about a document type that this Extraction field is mapped 
to, then you cannot typically edit it. If the Data Card displays information about a document type that this 
Extraction field is not mapped to, then the field behaves like a text field.

To understand this more clearly, suppose you have an extraction field called S_PROJ and you have mapped 
this field to an Inventor property named “Project Title.” When you are looking at a Data Card for an 
Inventor document, this field will behave like an extraction field. That is, Adept will import data from the 
Inventor document into the field when you synchronize or check in, and you can only edit this Data Card 
field if the Update Document or the Override Rights is selected.

On the other hand, when you are looking at this Data Card for a TIF document, this field on the Data Card 
no longer behaves like an extraction field. Instead it behaves like a text field, That is, Adept makes no 
attempt to extract data from a document into this field, and you are able to edit it. This field will never be 
blanked out by data in the TIF document since there are no values mapped to that type of document.

Editing Extraction Field: Override Rights
There are some other situations when you want to edit the Extraction field but you don’t want to update 
the document, for example, in older documents that don’t have the field defined. To allow users to edit 
these Extraction fields, Adept gives Workflow Managers the ability to override the normal restriction. 

To exercise this option, in the Data Card, a Workflow Manager can right-click. In the context menu, select 
the Override Rights, and then select Edit Extraction Fields.

When this pick is selected, the Data Card is put into a powerful mode that allows the Workflow Manager to 
edit the values of any Extraction fields on that Data Card. If the Workflow Manager is going to edit many 
documents, he or she can leave the card up, and the mode will persist, until the Data Card is closed. The 
Data Card “forgets” this mode whenever it is closed.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 7 of 13

There is no effort made to write the attributes into the document. This mode only relates to editing the Data 
Card data in the database.

To remind the user that Extractions can be edited, the color of Extraction fields changes to red.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Restricted Value Field
Restricted Value Fields are a type of Adept database field, into which you can only add new values by 
selecting them from a drop-down list. The list of permitted values is set up by the Administrator in the 
Administer Database Fields dialog.

Note: Values entered for a Restricted Value field may exceed the length permitted by the 
field definition. When saving the values, you will be warned should any value exceed 
the field length. These values will be available in the field list but will be truncated 
when saved in the Adept database. When searching using the value longer than the 
stored value, the search results may not include the documents having the truncated 
value.

When you enter data into a Restricted Field, you can only select one of the values in the restricted list. 
However, when you search for a value in a restricted field, you have more flexibility. You can either select the 
exact value from the drop-down list, or type in any search criterion, just as you would in an Unrestricted field.

For example, six of your permitted Restricted Values may start with the letter C. To find anyone of these 
values, simply type the letter C into your Search card.

Note: Extreme caution must be used when making edits to restricted lists due to the ability 
for Adept to include restricted lists in the configuration of Required Fields, Related 
Fields, and AutoName. It is the responsibility of the person making edits to restricted 
lists to ensure that those edits do not create incompatibilities with the usage of the 
edited restricted lists with Required Fields and AutoName.

Editing Restricted Value Fields: Override Rights
There are some other situations when you want to edit the Restricted field with a value not on the list, for 
example, in older documents that need an older value. To allow users to edit these fields, Adept gives 
Workflow Managers the ability to override the normal restriction. To exercise this option, Select the Batch 
Update command and in the Data Card, a Workflow Manager can right-click. In the context menu, select the 
Override Rights, and then select Override Restricted Lists.

When this pick is selected, the Data Card is put into a powerful mode that allows the Workflow Manager to 
edit the values of any Restricted Value field on that Data Card. The Data Card forgets this mode whenever it is 
closed. There is no effort made to write the values into the document. This mode only relates to editing the 
Data Card data in the database.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Protected Field

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 8 of 13

A protected field is a property you set in Adept fields. The purpose of this field is to prevent users from 
changing the value of such a field. Set this property from the Administer Database Fields dialog.

Protected fields can only be edited by users who have the Edit Protected Fields right in that Library. Note that 
this right is assigned by Library, so users may be given the right to edit Protected fields in one Library but not 
in another.

This right does not protect access to this field in a document that is NEW or DUPLICATED.

Use Protected Fields when you need to make data visible, but you want to restrict user ability to edit it. For 
example, if you want a field to represent a permanent property of a document, such as the project name or a 
part number, you can restrict such fields so they can only be edited by authorized individuals.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Indexed Field
When a database field is indexed, the database stores pre-sorted pointers for the values stored in this field. 
This makes searching on indexed faster than on non-indexed ones. The advantages are so powerful, it would 
seem to be desirable to index all the fields in the database. But there's a trade-off. When you have too many 
indexed fields, the indexes must be recalculated anytime you do a check in or delete. This takes time, so the 
more fields you have indexed, the longer it takes to calculate new pointers.

Here are the fields that Adept indexes:
· The Filename field is always indexed
· The first leaf in a FileGuide View is automatically indexed
· The Administrator can declare fields to be indexed from the Adept Designer. Up to10 fields can be 

indexed in this way

Indexed fields are indicated on the Data Card and Search Card by the background color of the field.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Memo Fields
Every record in Adept can have a memo field associated with it. Each memo text field contain text 
information, and may hold up to 32,767 characters. To access the memo field, click the memo tab on the Data 
Card.

Search Memo Fields
You can use the contents of memo fields to search for documents in Adept. To search, open the Search Card, 
select the Memo field tab, and type in the text that you want to search for. Then click the search command. 
The Search Results window will contain all the documents that have the search text contained in the memo 
field.

By default, searching memo fields finds all records containing the string that you've entered. Searching the 
memo field always assumes you are searching for the entered string anywhere within the memo field. 
Wildcards and Search Key entries are not supported when searching the memo field. 

You can see at a glance at the symbol to the left of the document name if a record has any text in its memo 
field. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 9 of 13

See: Symbols, Graphics, Icons, Glyphs

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Export data
Any of the Adept data windows can be saved to a tab-delimited document using the Save as Text command, 
located on the Collaborate tab of the ribbon.

To export data, first set up your Adept windows to include the data you need by changing the fields that are 
displayed in the Search Window.

You can export data from any of the Adept windows. For example, you could perform a Search and then use 
the contents of the Search Results window to use the Save as Text command. Or you could locate the 
documents in the FileGuide and use that window for the Report.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Backing up Your Data
Synergis recommends backing up databases according to your company policy in order to secure your 
document management data, and especially before you perform any operation that changes the structure of 
the Adept database.

You should schedule regular backups, either through the backup utility available with SQL, or with an 
automatically scheduled instance of the Adept Package Database, or both.

The Package Database utility can be run from command line switches driven by the Windows scheduler, so 
you can set up a routine packaging of your databases several times a day.  The document names output by 
Package Databases are coded for the date and time so it’s easy to distinguish them from each other.

Note: Package Databases does not back up your documents. To back up the documents in 
your vaults you will use your normal network backup procedure.  Adept also supports 
an Archive command which enables you to move selected groups of documents to 
offline storage.

Note: There is a chance that a PackageDatabase takes place precisely at the moment a user 
is in the middle of writing to the database.  To guard against this possibility, you 
should perform an off-hours PackageDatabases for your daily backup.  For especially 
critical backups, just before database changes, lock the system and force everyone off 
before Packaging the Database.

Your IT department will establish procedures for backing up the Adept database to tape.  If they need to stop 
the Adept service, the most convenient option is to run the Server as a Service.  With the Server as a service, 
you can schedule a batch routine that will stop the service, compress the database, package the database to a 
separate compressed document, and then start the service.  Using this method, your tape backup software 
will be able to backup the packaged database.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Package Databases

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 10 of 13

To create a self-extracting snapshot of all your databases, Administrators can select Export from Designer's 
File menu. Use this to backup your databases to prevent loss of data in the event of data corruption. It is 
recommended that you use Package Databases immediately before making any change in the database using 
the Designer.

The output documents from Package Databases are automatically named with the date and time. During the 
operation of this command, the Adept window is collapsed.

To restore the databases, decompress the packaged document. Specify your output by entering the 
credentials for your database connection. When you run the Import, it restores your databases up to the 
moment you created the Packaged document.

Force everyone to log out using Lock System for Maintenance before running the Package Databases 
command.

Administrators can also run PackageDatabases.exe as a program on the command line. This executable 
accepts command line arguments, so you can run this command from a scheduler, such as Windows 
Scheduler or the AT command. The arguments with examples are:

These switches describe the connection to the database schema that you want to back up:
dsn="<Name of the Database Server>"
dbf="<Database Name>"
uid="<Database User ID>"
pw="<Database User Password>"

These parameters specify the output document location, name, and whether or not you want to include 
memo fields:
backup - if present without "=filename" tells the application to immediately kick off the packaging process 
with no user intervention. It creates an automatically named backup document in the location defaulted to by 
a manual execution of PackageDatabases.exe.
backup="<File Name of packaged DB>" this will also kick off packaging process with no user intervention, and 
permits the specification of the document name for the created document.

Example of a command line:
C:\program files\synergis\adept8\utilities\packagedatabases.exe dsn=ADEPT10Oracle dbf=ADEPT10 
uid=ADEPT10 pw=Adept1 backup

For convenience Administrators could create a shortcut on your desktop containing the appropriate 
command line arguments. Or you can use the Windows Scheduler with PackageDatabases.exe to routinely 
back up your Adept databases.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Exclusive Mode Access to Database
When you perform certain operations in Adept, you must have exclusive control over the database. 
Operations such as saving a change to the database tables from Designer or changing the path of a Library or 
Vault require that all users be logged out. You can use the Lock System for Maintenance command to 
accomplish this task.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 11 of 13

In addition, you must stop the Adept Server, because your databases will continue to be locked, even after 
you have forced all users to log off. Before you can use save a database document in the Adept Designer, you 
must shut down the Adept Server.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Database Maintenance
Occasionally, the Adept Administrator needs to perform maintenance of Adept databases. These tasks can be 
accomplished by using the Adept database maintenance utilities. You can access these functions from the 
Adept Designer, or by running the AdeptDBUtils.exe located in the Utilities directory.

Note: These functions were formerly performed in the utility Dbcomp. Dbcomp has been 
replaced by functions in Designer and AdeptDBUtils.

Before you attempt database maintenance, back up your entire database. You can do this quickly by selecting 
Export from Designer Utilities. Depending on the exact nature of the database problem, you may need to 
revert to a previous version.

Note to Database Administrators: Do not edit Adept fields directly through the SQL 
Administration Tool. Always use the Adept Designer to modify Adept tables.

To use Designer all users must be logged out of Adept, so Designer can access the database in exclusive 
mode. To get all users out of Adept, select the Lock System for Maintenance command on the System tab of 
the ribbon.

When all users are off the system, exit Adept and stop the Adept Server application. Then run Designer, which 
is kept in a private directory on the network. Or you can use a batch document to schedule these operations.

· Clears user logins:  Use this when a user login has become set by an unexpected termination of Adept. 
This function can be performed from the Edit/Options/Admin dialog box.

· Clear History:  Clear all records from the History table.
· Purge History to Depth:  Clear records from the History table that exceed the specified depth.
· Purge Audit Trail:   Removes records from Audit Trail. Be sure to backup table first.
· Clear ADM password:  If your ADM password has been lost, use this to clear it. When you go back to 

Adept immediately set a new password.
· Repair Database:  Maintains database. Use if directed by Adept support.

Run AdeptDBUtils:
dsn=<Database Server> - REQUIRED
dbf=<Database Name>
uid=<Database User Login>
pw=<Database User Password>
log=<Log File Name> - creates log file of all activity for session
rd - executes database repair
id - reindex the Files table and cause the database server to compute statistics on the new indexes
cl - clears all active logins

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 12 of 13

ch - clears all history records
ph - purges history to depth
pa=<date in form YYYYMMDD> - purge audit trail of records on or before date
pa - clears all audit trail records
ca - clears ADM password
ct - clears all record tags (locks)

Example:
AdeptDBUtils dsn=MyDsn dbf=MyDB uid=Tony pw=Tiger log="c:\temp dir\test.txt” rd cl ph pa=20050101 ct

Note in the example above the log file path should be in quotes when there are spaces in the full path name. 
See a complete batch file example in the Admin Manual.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Dates
Adept tracks a number of dates related to each document. 

· Added Date is the date the record was first entered into Adept
· Document Date reflects the date on the Windows document system
· Adept Date reports when the document was most recently affected by one of these operations: New, 

Check In, Check Out, Final Approve, Extract, Copy, Create Revision, Archive, Restore, Assign, Unassign, 
Release Check Out, Acquire Check Out

· Extract Date records the date and time of the most recent extraction
· Approve Date is the date and time when the document was Final Approved into the Library

In addition, each Workflow step keeps track of when the document arrived at the step and when it departed.

For more information about these dates, see the topic on System Fields.
For more information about date formats, see the topic on Setting Dates.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Set Date
All Adept dates use four characters for the year. When you click on a date field on the Data Card, you will see 
the date entry dialog box. Use this dialog box to set a specific date or a range of dates for search criteria. In 
the Search Card, date fields have a drop-down box. All dates are set by typing or by clicking on the drop-down 
box next to the date field.

To set a range of dates, set the before and after dates. The After date is the first date you want to include. 
The Before date is the last date you want to include. A valid range requires that the Before date comes earlier 
than the After date. 

To search for documents on a specific day, set the On box. If you set the On box, the Before and After dates 
are canceled. If you set an illegal range, the date defaults to On today’s date.

Click to past or future months to display a calendar.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Database Introduction Page 13 of 13

Note: The Administrator can set the format in which Adept displays dates under the Global 
User tab of the Options on the Tools tab of the ribbon.

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Record Locking or Tagging
When you select documents that are either on HOLD, IN or ASSIGNED, Adept selects them on your local 
workstation, but does not lock them in the database.  When you perform an action, such as checking out or 
assigning a document, Adept goes to the database, locks or TAGS the record, and performs the action.  Adept 
also tags a record while a user has the Data Card open.  While the record is locked, no other user may edit the 
Data Card or perform an action such as checking it out.  If someone else gets to the document before you, the 
record may no longer be available to you and you will receive a message.  You can proceed by clicking the 
message box.

When a document is tagged, Adept prevent two users from checking out the same document at once or 
editing the Data Card at the same time.  The under-the-hood technical name for this restriction is "record 
locking".  The record is locked when Adept is ready to perform an action, and released as soon as the action is 
complete.  It is possible that during the brief period when you have a record locked, your workstation might 
crash.  In this rare eventuality, the record will be "stuck" as tagged. To clear "stuck" tags, see Clear Tags

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh6CC6.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 1 of 8

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Data Card
The data card is an on-screen form that displays the information stored in the Adept database and, where 
appropriate, allows you to enter additional information.  A data card shows you detailed information about 
one document at a time.  Each data card can contain up to 8 pages of custom information plus a page for a 
memo field and a page for a thumbnail. The different pages of a multiple page data card are viewed by 
clicking the tabs that appear across the top of the card.

The administrator creates data cards in the Adept Designer.

To select the document for which you will see the data card, select from any Adept window.  Once the data 
card is displayed you can click the left and right arrows at the top of the card to navigate to the previous or 
next document in the list you are currently viewing.

Selecting a Data Card
If you have been authorized to select a customized data card, you can do so from the drop down box at the 
top of the data card.  Customized data cards are designed by your administrator to show those fields in the 
database that are relevant to a particular purpose.  There can be up to 8 different data card formats.  Because 
in some settings some information may be restricted, the administrator can set the User Profile so particular 
users can access only one data card.  If you are not permitted to choose data cards the drop-down list is 
hidden.

Color Coding: Font and Background Color Indicates Field Properties
The color of the field or the font often indicates whether or not a field is editable, as well as indicating other 
properties. See the topic on Data Card - Color Coding for more details.

Rules About When You Can and Can't Edit Data Card Fields
To edit a data card that is IN, you must have the library access rights to Edit Data Cards in Library.  No matter 
what your library access rights are, you are entitled to edit data cards of documents that you have created 
and are NEW, or that are OUT to you.  If you are an administrator you can also edit a data card that is checked 
out to a different user.

System Fields
You can never edit System Fields. System fields are used by Adept and cannot be directly edited. 

Protected Fields 
If a field is Protected. you can edit it only if you have rights to Edit Protected Fields. 

Restricted Fields 
Restricted Value Fields allow only certain values to be entered. These fields have a drop-down box that 
displays the list of available values. The administrator provides the values in a restricted value drop-down box 
by entering them in the Administer Database Fields dialog available by selecting the Database Fields 
command on the System tab on the ribbon bar. If you have Workflow Manager level rights or higher, you 
have access to the override rights option in the context menu.  This option allows you to input a value that is 
not on the restricted list and have that value populated into the data cards. This does not put the entered 
value on the restricted list.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 2 of 8

Extraction fields filled in automatically
Extraction fields are those fields that Adept uses to pull information in from document properties and 
attributes.  When the administrator sets up extraction fields, each field is mapped to properties or attributes 
in a particular document type.  Generally, extraction fields are filled in automatically by Adept using 
information it pulls from documents.

Related Fields
If a field is related, making a selection in one field influences the choices available in subsequent fields that 
are related.

Editing Extraction fields
Under some circumstances you can edit extraction fields. This might happen if the field you are working on 
isn't mapped to an attribute or property in the current document, or if you have extraction turned off for the 
current document type, or if you are viewing a document such as a GIF or JPG that does not have an active 
extraction option, or if you override rights. See the topic on Extraction Fields for more information.

Update documents
The other reason why you may be able to edit extraction fields is if you have selected the Update Documents
option at the top of the data card. This option means that Adept will push the information you enter into the 
extraction field back out to the document when you select the Save command. To do this you must have the 
Library Access Right: Update Documents.

Save your changes
After you change an editable fields on the data card you can save your changes immediately by selecting the 
Save command or you can wait until you close the data card and answer Yes or No when asked if you want to 
save your changes.

Note: The Adept numeric fields, when defined as an integer only (scale of 0), can save a 
value no larger than 2147483647. Attempting to save a larger value in the field will 
result in the value either reverting to the maximum value allowed or a message 
displayed informing you that input value cannot be saved. To save a value containing 
10 or more whole numbers, the field must be defined as a non-integer field (scale of 1 
or more) and even then, saved results may be different from what is expected as 
numbers reach the maximum value allowed.

Work-in-progress or Library copy of a Data Card
When you view the data card for a document that is Out or on Hold, there are two possible data cards that 
you can view, either the work-in-progress or WIP copy or the library copy. When you view the library copy 
you cannot edit the fields. To switch between viewing the WIP or the library copy, check the View Library 
Copy check box at the top of the data card. 

You can also affect the source of the data card by selecting the Information Source at the bottom left of the 
Adept window. This setting only affects the initial display of the data card. You can still toggle back and forth 
between Library and WIP using the check box at the top of the data card.

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Data Card: Memo

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 3 of 8

One tab on the data card is labeled Memo by default. You can type into the memo field in unformatted text, 
or you can paste formatted text into it. You can also paste images.

Formatting Text in the Memo Tab
You can copy formatted text from a Microsoft Word or other supported document and paste it into the 
memo tab using the standard keyboard combination, Control-C, Control-V. The original formatting will in 
general be remembered, depending on the underlying format codes.  When you type into the memo tab, the 
new characters will inherit the nearby formatting.  In addition, you can add basic formatting by selecting the 
text and clicking the, Bold, Italic, or Underline buttons.  

Note: Word Wrap is not automatic. To format the end of a line, hit the enter key.

Insert Date Stamp
To insert today's date, place your cursor at the place in your text where you want the date to appear and click 
the "Insert Date Stamp" button.

Memo Tab Can Hold Images
You can paste images into the memo tab using the standard keyboard combination, Control-V. In addition, 
you can click the Insert Image button and browse to an image. The maximum size of any image you can paste 
into a memo field is determined by a variable that the administrator sets in the Tools tab>Options: Global 
User dialog.

Change the Display Magnification
To increase the size of the memo display, hold down the control key and slide the mouse's thumb wheel up. 
This only changes the display size, not the actual font or images.

Memo Tab Title Can be Changed
The title of the memo tab can be changed to some other text, by entering text into the "Memo Tab Title" in 
Tools tab>Options>Global User>Memo Tab.  This change does not require editing in the Adept Designer.

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Data Card: Select Current
The Administrator customizes Data Cards to provide specialized views of the Adept database. Each Data Card 
shows the database fields that are relevant to a particular need. If your site has more than one Data Card, and 
if you have permission to select amongst them:

1. At the top of the Data Card or Search Card, click the Data Card drop-down box
2. From the list of available Data Cards, select the one you want to use

Note: You must have permission to select Data Cards to perform this operation. Permission 
to select Data Cards is granted to each user by the Administrator in the User's 
Profile.

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Edit a Data Card

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 4 of 8

1. Select the document whose data card you want to change. You can select it in the FileGuide, Search 
Results or Work Area window.

2. Display the data card by selecting Data Card from the Home or View tabs on the ribbon.
3. You can edit data cards if you have Edit Data Cards Library Access Rights and if the card is not currently 

being edited. 
4. When you are viewing an editable data card, Adept automatically tags (locks) the document so that no 

other user may edit the data card during that time.
5. Only non-system fields may be edited. System fields such as document name, library or time modified 

cannot be edited.
6. You can only edit Protected Fields if you have Edit Protected Fields rights.
7. Text that you can edit is active and text that you can't edit is inactive (gray).
8. Use the mouse to move from field to field, making desired entries as you go.
9. Press the Save button at the top of the data card anytime to save your changes in the database, or 

Cancel to exit without saving further changes.

Note: 
You can 
use the 
keyboard 
tab key 
to move 
from 
field to 
field. The 
cursor 
moves, 
starting 
from the 
top left 
corner, 
across 
and 
down 
the card.

There is no mechanism to specifically order the fields for tab movement

You will not be permitted to edit the data card when:
1. the document is tagged by another user
2. the document is checked out by another user
3. the document is assigned to another user, unless you are the last owner
4. the document is checked in and you do not have Library Access Rights to edit data cards in that library

You will be permitted to edit the data card:
1. If you are an Admin. An Admin can edit a data card, even if the document is out to another user.
2. Regardless of Edit Data Card rights, you can edit a data card when the document is in your work area 

with a status of OUT, NEW or DUPLICATE.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 5 of 8

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Data Card - Can't Edit
Here are potential reasons why you can't edit a data card:

Can't Edit the Card at all
You need Edit Data Card in Library rights in this library to edit a data card. In some cases the Admin has set 
up library editing access so that users can't edit library cards with the status of In.

Another user may have the document record locked or tagged. There are several ways a document can be 
tagged. If a user is currently editing or viewing the data card, it becomes tagged, and no one else can edit 
the data card. See the topic on tagging for more information.

Can't edit some fields
Some fields of the data card are editable, and some are not. You can visually distinguish editable from non-
editable fields. Fields that you can edit are active (text is darker black) and fields that are non-editable are 
inactive (text is lighter gray).

System Fields
You can never edit System Fields, such as Document Size or Adept Date.

Extraction Fields
Extraction fields are generally meant to be read-only fields. They contain data that was extracted from a 
supported document, such as Microsoft Word, AutoCAD, Inventor or SOLIDWORKS. In some document 
formats you can also update the document. To use this feature, if you are authorized, you can select the 
Update Document check box on the data card. The fields will then become editable. You can also edit 
Extraction Fields if the integration for this document type doesn't exist or is turned off. For example, you 
can edit an extraction field if the data card is for a GIF, because Adept does not extract properties from 
GIFs. You can also edit an Extraction Field for a document if extraction for that document type is disabled. 
For more details see Edit Extraction Fields.

Restricted Value Fields
To enter data into a Restricted Value Field you are only permitted to choose from among the available 
values that are presented in the dropdown list. These were entered by the Admin when setting up the 
Restricted Value list. You cannot type into Restricted Value fields.

Protected Fields
You must have Library Access Rights to Edit Protected Fields except in New or Duplicate documents.

Related Fields
Related fields follow the same rules for editing restricted value fields.

Navigation:  Data Cards >

View Data Card
View the data card for a document by selecting the Data Card button on the Home or View tabs of the ribbon 
bar.  This command displays the data card of the selected document.  To view data cards you must have View 
access rights to the library where the document resides.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 6 of 8

Note: You may set the double-click action by opening Adept Options from the Tools tab of 
the ribbon and selecting the General tab, so that a double click on the document 
displays the data card.

You can make changes to the custom fields in a data card if you have the correct library access rights for the 
status of the document and if no other user has selected the document for an operation. See Edit a Data Card
for more details.

The Update Document check box on the data card is active only when you have rights to update the 
document and when no one else is editing the card.

When you are viewing the data card for a document that is Out or on Hold/Review, you can choose to view 
either the working copy or the library copy.  The check box is labeled 'View Library Copy' and in some cases, 
such as when the system field 'In Once' is false, there is no library copy to view and the option will be 
disabled.  To switch between viewing the working or the library copy, click the check box at the top of the 
data card.  When you view the library copy of a record that has a WIP copy, you cannot edit the fields on the 
library copy of the data card. 

If your User Profile gives you the right to select a different data card, you can view the drop-down list at the 
top of the data card.  If you don't have the ability to choose data cards, this drop down box stays hidden.

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Data Card - Color Coding
Some fields in the data card can have additional rules that govern the behavior of that field or piece of data. 
To help you understand these rules at a glance, the fields are painted with a particular color. Here is a list of 
the various colors of fields in the data card, and their meaning:

Color Meaning
Normal: Color determined by Windows No special meaning
Light Purple Indexed by the database for fast searching and sorting
Darker Purple Protected field. You need special rights to edit it
Light Gray Disabled. Editing is currently not allowed
Very light blue Extracted fields, associated with an attribute or property in an 

external document. Ordinarily you can't edit these. 
Red text, pink background Override rights enables editing of an extracted field. See the section 

on Override Rights in the topic Edit Extraction Fields
Yellow Unsaved Changes: Data has been edited but the card is not yet 

saved

Navigation:  Data Cards >

To Print a Data Card
To print a data card, you can copy the image of the data card into the clipboard and then paste it into a 
suitable program, such as Word or Paintbrush.

1. Click on the data card to be sure that it's activated

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 7 of 8

2. Hold the Alt key down and press the Print Scrn key on your keyboard. This copies the data card image to 
the clipboard

3. Start up Paintbrush or alt-tab to it if it's already running
4. Hold the control key down and press V. This pastes the image of the data card into Paintbrush
5. Select Print from the File menu

Navigation:  Data Cards >

Batch Update
The Batch Update command allows users to quickly make changes to a group of document's data cards in one 
operation. For example, when you create documents for a project, you might want to add the name of the 
project and the name of the Project Engineer to all the documents you’ve just created. Or if a project name 
changes, you can go back and change the data cards of all related documents to reflect the new name.

This command also updates Properties and Attributes in the document when you batch update an Adept 
extraction field.

Because Batch Update is a powerful command, the Administrator can disable this command and limit the 
number of data cards that any user may Batch Update at one time. This limit is set in the 
Options>Admin>Global User, by selecting the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon. 
Administrators are not limited by these restrictions.

To perform a Batch Update:

1. Select all the documents that you want to change. You can select them from the FileGuide or Search 
Results window.

Note: If you want to select all the documents in a window, use Ctrl+a.

2. Select "Update" from the Batch panel on the Edit tab of the ribbon bar. (The shortcut key for this 
command is "Ctrl+b".) This brings up a blank data card. System fields are disabled, since you can't edit 
them. The number at the top of the Batch Update card shows the number of documents that are going 
to be updated.

3. If you want to update attributes or properties in documents, you can check the "Update documents" 
box to enable editing of extraction fields. (You can only do this you have the appropriate Library Access 
Rights.)

4. Enter values into any editable field. The values you enter into these fields will be used to populate these 
fields on all selected documents.

Note: Be sure to add information only to those fields which you want to overwrite in all 
selected documents. Any information that was in these fields will be overwritten. 
Any fields in Batch Update that you leave blank will not change the corresponding 
field in the destination.

Note: To clear a field, enter a ` (back quote) in that field. This also works to clear the memo 
field.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Data Card Page 8 of 8

Note: For Batch Update, the memo field acts like any other field with the existing 
information being replaced. Batch Update on a memo field results in all existing 
information on the memo field for each document being deleted while the new 
information from the Batch Update is being inserted.

5.  To execute the command, click the Update button on the top left of the data card. Or you can click the 
close button to exit the command.

What if a document is checked out or on Hold?
You can apply Batch Update to documents that have a status of Hold/Review or Out. Such documents exist in 
two places, work in progress and in the library. Adept chooses which data cards (or if Update documents is 
checked, which documents) should be affected based on the following rules:

· If the document is Out to you, New or Duplicate in your work area, or on Hold/Review and you have 
Workflow Manager rights to the library, the update is automatically performed on the work in progress 
document (the one that's in your Work Area or on Hold/Review).

· If the document is in the library with a status of In or Assigned, the update is automatically performed on 
the library version of the document.

The above applies to both the data card and the document when “Update Document” is checked.

Note: When you Batch Update a property in a SOLIDWORKS document, Adept will first 
create the property and then set the value in any SOLIDWORKS document in 
which the property does not already exist.

Note: Care must be taken when performing a Batch Update on a field that is a Related Field. 
See the topic Related Fields Overview for more details.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh1138.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 1 of 28

Navigation:  Administrator >

Administrator
The Adept Administrator has access to every part of the Adept environment, completely uninhibited by security levels or Library Access 
Rights restrictions.

The first login account is an administrator named ADM.  The User Name for this account is "System Administrator".  From the ADM 
account, the first Administrator adds users, including other Administrators.

Any new user can be set as an Administrator by setting that user permission in the User Profile.  This is the highest level of rights in Adept 
and should only be assigned to those trusted with network and document security.  An Administrator who does not understand the 
program could inadvertently delete important data.

Only Adept system administrators can:
· Create, edit and disable Adept users
· Create, edit and delete Adept Library Access Groups
· Create, edit and delete Adept Vaults
· Access the Admin options in the Options dialogs

To share responsibility for administering libraries, the Administrator can appoint any number of Library Administrators.  A Library 
Administrator is responsible for rights and libraries within a particular branch of the directory tree. Library Administrator is granted as a 
Library Access right.  The right is inherited down through a directory tree and applies to all libraries beneath the one where it is assigned.

Only Administrators or Library Administrators can:
· Assign rights to libraries by adding groups
· Add, edit, or delete libraries
· Assign workflow to a library, or a document
· Lock the System for Maintenance

Administrators can also:
· Copy, move, rename, and delete data documents from the Library Area
· Perform the duties of Adept Archivers and Workflow Managers
· Perform Batch Updates to Data Cards

Navigation:  Administrator >

Administrator Login
When you install Adept for the first time, the only user is named ADM.  You cannot remove or rename the ADM account.  The ADM 
account always has administrator rights, so you should be sure to give this account a strong password.  Typically, you will give yourself a 
named account, and grant administrator rights to that account.  With a named Administrator account, you will be able to differentiate 
your administrator  activities from those performed by other administrators.  You can have as many administrators as you want.  You 
cannot restrict the rights of an Administrator.  All Administrators have the same rights.

Note: See Appendix B in the Adept Installation Guide for more information on Single Sign On (SSO).

Navigation:  Administrator >

System Reports
Administrators can view and print various reports by selecting them from the Reports menu under the Maintenance command on the 
System tab of the ribbon.  These reports are presented as Notepad documents that can be viewed, printed and saved.

Note: We recommend you run these reports with no Active Library Set.  If a Library Set is active at the time you run the 
report, the Active Library Set is ignored and the report includes all libraries.

Added Document
When you run this report, you can specify the period of time.  This will list all the documents that have been added in the system.  The 
check box for "Everything" will ignore the interval and include all documents. The results of this report are displayed in the Search Results 
window.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 2 of 28

Active Directory
The Active Directory report provides a list of all Audit Trail entries related to Active Directory activity.  To reduce the size of the report, 
you can input the number of days to include, or to include all days, click the "All Days" button. 

Admin Daily Brief
This report gives a summary of important information, such as the number of empty libraries, deleted documents, and an overview of 
logins for the time period.  This covers the period of time since the last time you ran this report.  When you run this report, it also updates 
the glyphs that indicate Empty Libraries in the Library Browser tree.  Any user who is currently logged in will be noted with ** to the left 
of their listing in the report.

Audit Trail 
This report provides an overview of the data in the Audit Trail.  It is sorted in two ways.  One output is sorted by user, so you can see how 
many commands have been issued by each user.  The other one is sorted by each command.  This gives you an overview of what 
commands have been used.  In addition, to the Audit Trail entries, the Active Directory report also contains a list of all users in Adept who 
are linked to Active Directory.

Deleted Document
When you run this report, you can specify the period of time.  This will list all the documents that have been deleted from the system. 
 The check box for "Everything" will ignore the interval and include all document.

Database Counts
This gives a count of records in various Adept tables. It could be useful for analyzing database issues.

Groups
This report lists each group and the user in the group. Users are listed by their username and login ID.   Also included in the report is a list 
of each group and its assignment to Libraries and Workflows.

Lists 
This report lists the sharable objects in Adept, such as named Favorite Lists, Column Sets, Saved Searches and Groups.  The report shows 
which objects have been shared globally.

Login 
This report provides a summary of each type of license that your company has and how many of those licenses are in use. The Login 
report also shows a list of each user including their user name, login name, product or platform (Adept Desktop or Web Client) they last 
logged in using, what type of user they are (Desktop, Creator, Reviewer, or Explorer), whether or not they have a named (locked) license, 
the version of Adept last used (to determine if user needs to access current release), the IP address of their last usage of Adept, and the 
name of the Local Data Cache (LDC), if any, that the Workstation was attempting to access.  Any user who is currently logged in will be 
noted with ** to the left of their listing in the report.      

Note: To properly print this text document, all columns must line up correctly.  Before printing, you may need to set your 
printer to Landscape mode.  If you import the text document into a Word Processor, convert the font to a non-
proportionally spaced font such as Courier before printing.

Missing Relationships
You can see a report of the Children Adept is missing.

System Report
To get a detailed report of Users, Groups and Libraries run the System Report.  This includes a list of defined Workflows.

User Report
This report lists each user's login name, username, license type, email, and their user profile settings.

User Rights Report
This report lists, for each user, each Library in the Adept system and whether the user has each potential right to the Library.  For 
example, each user will have either a "Y" or an "N" in the column for the rights to View, to Copy, to Markup, and so forth.

Work Areas
Lists each user's Work Areas, including path.

Workflow 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 3 of 28

This report lists the name of each Workflow, the name of each step in that Workflow, the groups assigned as Reviewers, and the options 
assigned to that step. It also lists whether or not a Time Out Alert is set and flags an error condition if Reviewers do not have Viewing 
Rights. In order to speedup and simplify the report, it only lists those libraries which have an explicitly-set Workflow. All the libraries lower 
in the hierarchy, which inherit the Workflow from the library above it, will have the same report.

Note: It is possible that some libraries that inherit the same Workflow have inherited different Library Access Rights. 
These libraries must be reviewed on a case by case basis.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Update Local Tables
Adept stores administrative information in local tables on each workstation. This data must be kept up to date so the Adept client 
behaves correctly. When Administrators make changes on the server, a flag is set that notifies clients that their tables are no longer 
current.

When the Adept client attempts to perform an operation, it detects that its local tables are no longer current,  and will download new 
ones as needed.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Inbox Membership & Troubleshooting
In some situations, the Administrator will want to reset a user's Inbox, or set a group of users with a similar Inbox list.  To perform this 
administrative task, select the Inbox Membership and Troubleshooting command from the Troubleshooting drop down list under the 
Maintenance group on the System tab of the ribbon.  

Note: Only Administrators have access to this command.

When you are finished selecting the users to change, select the Configure Inbox command.  The resulting dialog is identical to the Share 
With dialog. Using the list on the right labeled Exclude, select users or personal groups, then select the left-arrow to move them to the list 
on the left.  This will be the list of users who will be included in the Inbox of the person or persons you are modifying.

When you select Ok, Adept will apply the changes you made in this dialog to all the selected users.

When the Administrator Needs to Reconfigure or Reset Some Settings
Under some situations, you may need to reset or alter a user's settings.  To do so, select the option to Show Troubleshooting Controls. 
 This reveals a number of operations you can perform on the selected users.

Reset Inbox
Select the Reset Inbox command to reset the user's Inbox.  After resetting, the selected users will only be able to see their own Inbox.

Delete Col Sets/windows
This discards all column sets created by the selected users.  Note that if the user has shared column sets, those will also be removed. 
 Column sets that were shared with the users will be unchanged.  In addition to saved column sets, this command will also discard the 
column configuration currently in use in the user's windows and resets the columns to the defaults.

Delete Searches, Personal Groups, and Library Sets
Similarly, these three reset commands will discard Searches, Personal Groups, or Library Sets created by this user, but will not remove 
objects shared with the user.

Delete Ribbon Sets/Custom Tabs
This command will discard any ribbon sets and custom tabs created by this user, but will not remove objects shared with the user.

Delete Hidden Lists
This command will discard any hidden settings the user has made for hiding objects shared with the user.

Delete User's .als Lists
This command will discard all .als files created by this user. Every time a user sends a list of documents, the list is stored in the server.  This 
is necessary in order to maintain the list for reference.  However, the lists accumulate over time. You may have already set the 
administrative option to automatically remove the .als lists after a specified timeout period. (See the Help Topic for Options: Email 
Notification for more information.)  When you need to clear out these notifications, use the Delete .als Lists command. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 4 of 28

Note: This command deletes all .als lists in the system created by the user. As a result, the command should be used with 
caution and only after you have confirmed that users are not relying on these lists. In general, users should be 
instructed to use Named Favorite Lists for long term storage as deleted .als lists cannot be recovered and any 
existing .als file dependent on the stored list will fail to resolve.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Email Setup
To enable the Adept email notifications, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Email Notification in the 
tree.  In that dialog, you can set Adept to send an email when a document enters a Workflow step, or when you Assign a document, or 
when you Final Approval a document, or Sent To a document, or when the document has been in a Workflow longer than your timeout 
setting.

Some of the details of that email are specified in this Email Setup dialog.

You can specify a subject line for the email, depending on what triggered the event.  There are five types of email notifications each of 
which can have its own subject line: Assign, Review, Final Approval, Alert, and Send To.

For each subject line, you can include metadata for the file(s) being referred to by the email.  First, place your cursor into the desired 
location in one of the subject line fields. Now you can include the field name and/or field value by selecting the appropriate radio button, 
selecting the field from the drop down list, then selecting the Insert button.  The appropriate field code will be inserted into the location 
specified by the previous cursor placement.  You can add as many fields as desired. Outlook limits a subject line to 256 characters and 
should the subject line exceed that limit, it will be truncated and ended with [More…]

Note: The field code contains either an "N" or a "V" separated by colons. This identifies if the inserted code is to insert 
the display name (N) or the field value (V).

The Field Separator is limited to a maximum of three characters and is used to separate field values that are stacked together when the 
notification is for multiple files.  The Field Separator value is only used when handling multiple files.  The entered value will automatically 
get a space appended to the end when included in the subject line.  To separate fields for single file email notifications, you can enter 
separators on the subject line contents.  For example, if the subject line includes the field name for “Project:” and the email contains 
three files from various projects and the Field Separator is a comma, the email subject line would be similar to this:

Project:123, 456, 789

Using the same example, should all three files have the same "Project" value, the subject line would be similar to this:

Project: 123(3)

The (3) is the total count of documents having "123" as the Project value.

Additional customization is supported in the header, footer, and body. The header and footer may be populated with static text that will 
display for every email notification sent.

By selecting a Column Set in the Email Setup dialog, you instruct Adept to include the values of each of the fields in the Column Set in the 
body of the email. This will also use the designated Field Separator to separate each field name and value for each file listed in the email 
body.

Note: The Adept Version field is permitted in the Column Set used for email notifications, but at this time email notifications 
triggered by Adept Web Clients and Adept Task Pane are not able to display the Adept Version field. Alternatively, 
administrators may include the Major Version and Minor Version fields in the Column Set used for email notifications.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Admin
The Admin options are only visible to Adept Administrators.  Changes to any of the Admin options affect the behavior of the entire Adept 
site.

To set or view the Administrator options, select the Tools tab on the main Adept ribbon and select the Options command button:

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 5 of 28

Or, access the Admin options from the Backstage button.  

Then select and expand the Admin options tree.  

Main Admin Options

Background Option:
Seconds between Inbox and Logoff Tests
The Adept client must periodically poll the Adept server, to check for updates to the user's Inbox, and to see if the Administrator has 
issued a Lock System for Maintenance.  When the client checks for this information frequently, there is a shorter wait between tests. 
However, in exchange for more frequent polling, there is a cost.  The lower you set the number of seconds, the more polling traffic you 
cause on the network.   If you have a busy network, and want to minimize the impact Adept has on the network you can increase the 
number of seconds between tests.  A value of 600 (ten minutes) could be a good compromise, giving an interval of 10 minutes for new 
Inbox counts, and for forcing users to log out of Adept.  Entering a value of 0 disables all polling. This is not recommended. 

Client-Side FTP Components:  
Enhanced FTP or Standard Windows FTP
This option allows you to force standard FTP support or to allow enhanced FTP support.  Enhanced FTP includes the features of 
compression and secure FTPS.  If you enable support for enhanced FTP, you also must set the Vault Profile to the type of connection, 
and also you must run an FTP Server at the Vault that will support these additional features.

Note: After you change this option, you must exit Adept and log back in before it takes effect.

Adept Server Workflow Alerts:  
Minutes between Workflow Alert tests
Adept monitors the length of time a document remains in each step of the Workflow.  To check for these timed out 
documents, the Server must send a test. Set the time between tests here, entered in minutes. A short duration between 
tests will catch the timeout quickly, but will create more network traffic.  A long duration might not catch the timeout right 
away, but it reduces network traffic. A 0 in this field disables Alerts.  The value can be as high as 2880 minutes (48 hours).
Adept Server Workflow Alerts:  Clear document workflow when document is copied

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 6 of 28

This option applies when you copy a document.  With this option enabled, the document workflow will be reset to its default.  With this 
option disabled, the copied document will continue with its current Workflow.

Check In Options:  
Enable Undo Check Out
This option controls whether or not users will be able to choose the Undo Check Out option in the Check In dialog.

Note: This option has no effect on the ability to select the Undo Check Out of Unchanged Children command on the 
Document tab of the ribbon or the Work Area right-click menu.

Hide/Show:
Hide Libraries from users with no view rights
When this option is unchecked, users will see all library names in the Library Browser. The icon used for libraries where the user has no 
view rights is a yellow folder icon with a small red circle containing an "X".  When this option is checked, the user will not see library 
names for those libraries where the user lacks view rights.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Global User
Select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon or select Options from the Backstage button, then select the Global User 
option.  This option is only visible and accessible to an Adept Administrator.

Batch Update Data Cards:
Enable Batch Update of Data Card
Adept Administrators can Enable or disable the ability to Batch Update Data Cards.  Administrators are not limited by this setting.
Allow unlimited number to Batch Update
When the Admin check this box, Adept does not restrict the number of data cards users can Batch Update at one time.  When 
unchecked, the Maximum allowed option becomes active.
Maximum allowed
This option is enabled after unchecking the option to Allow unlimited number to Batch Update.  This controls the maximum number of 
 Data Cards that are allowed to be updated using the Batch Update Data command.  Because Batch Update of Data Cards is a powerful 
command that can change a number of data cards at one time, the Adept Administrator may choose to limit the number of data cards 
that any user can Batch Update in one command. Set the limit to any positive number to limit users to batch update that number of 
data cards. When you check the box to "Allow unlimited number of data cards to be batch updated" the Maximum number is set to "-1" 
and users may Batch Update any number of data cards.  Administrators are not restricted by this setting. Administrators can Batch 
Update as many data cards as are selected.

Work Area Options:
Allow user to edit Label Field
When this option is checked, the user is allowed to edit the label in the Create Work Area or Edit Work Area dialog. If the option is not 
checked, the Label Field automatically displays the name of the folder in which the Work Area is located and users are not permitted to 
edit this field.

Validate all Work Areas on Login
When this option is checked, all Work Areas are validated when logging into Adept.  Validating Work Areas can increase the time 
required to complete the login process, especially if one or more Work Areas cannot be validated.  A common reason for a Work Area 
not being validated is when a Work Area is located on a network device and that device is unavailable.  Validation must wait for that 
Work Area validation to timeout, resulting in long login times. With this option unchecked, Work Areas are not validated at login which 
can allow the user to complete login more rapidly.  Work Areas not validated at login will be validated when opening the Work Area 
window, possibly resulting in longer times for the window to open completely.

Memo Tab:
Memo Tab Title
The Adept Administrator can change the title of the Memo Tab by entering text into this field.  No changes are required in Adept 
Designer to change the memo tab title to a different name.  By default the title will be Memo.

Maximum Memo Data Size
Set the maximum allowable size, in megabytes, of the data to be pasted into the Memo tab.  This affects all users. If a user attempts to 
paste an image larger than this size, Adept will not accept the action.

Date Display Format

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 7 of 28

The Adept Administrator can select from several formats to display dates and times.  The selected format will be used to display dates  in 
Adept windows (Data Card, Search Results, FileGuide, Document Dashboard and Work Area). This setting does not change the underlying 
data structure of Adept but simply alters the way the information is displayed to the user.

· Adept Standard Format (Local) is commonly used in the U.S.
· Year/Month/Day (Local) is commonly used in European countries and is best suited for sorting
· ISO UTC displays date/time with the T removed for readability, and the Z visible for accuracy
· ISO Local converts the UTC times to Local times and displays with the T removed for readability
· Windows converts dates and times to UTC Local times and displays them according to the setting on your Windows operating 

system

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Database and Login
Display the Login Authentication option tab by selecting the Options command on the Tools tab, then select Database and Login.

Unique Filenames:
· Not Enforced - When selected, unique document filenames are not enforced; duplicate names are possible
· Enforce System-wide - When selected, forces unique document filenames throughout all documents in Adept.  Adept does not allow 

any duplicate document filenames.
· Enforce Per Vault - enforces unique document filenames within each vault but allows the same filename to exist in more than one 

Vault.  For example, with this option set, it is permissible to have Vault1/widget.doc and Vault2/widget.doc
Note: Adept never permits checking in a document with a name that already exists in any Adept Library

Unique Library Names
These options determine the scope in which Library names must be unique and only affect the creation of new Libraries.  If you switch 
from Enforce Per Vault to Enforce System-wide, Adept does not attempt to flag duplicate Library names that may already exist.
· Enforce System-wide - When selected, a new Library name must be different from any Library in the entire Adept system.
· Enforce Per Vault  - When selected, a new Library name only needs to be unique within the Vault

Windows Domain - this is the Windows Domain that will be the default domain to be used if the domain is not set in the User Windows 
profile

Login Authentication Methods
There are three methods Adept uses to authenticate your user name and password. 

Note:  If you have users who will log into Adept through the Adept Web Client, you must configure the Desktop Login 
Authentication Method to be Adept User Name and Password for the whole site. OR, for each user who will log into 
the Adept Web Client, you must set their Active Directory Domain to the value Adept in their User Profile.

Mode1:  Adept Username and Password
This is referred to as “Classic” mode. The user enters a username and password which is then checked against the Adept 

User Profile as entered by the Adept Administrator.  In this case, the Adept Username and Password are 
independent from the Windows domain.

Mode2:  Domain Login options:   Windows Username and Password
When the Adept Admin sets the authentication mode to use Windows Username and Password, the user must enter their Windows 
Username and Password in the Adept Login dialog. The Adept Server then authenticates the username and password entered by the 
user on login against the Username and password that Windows has stored in the User’s domain. This domain is specified in the 
Windows User’s Profile. If the User Profile does not specify a domain, it uses the default domain as specified in the 
Edit/Options/Authentication dialog

Note:  This mode does not permit Auto Login
For security reasons, Adept does not save such passwords. Users must type in the password each time they log in.
The ADM login does not use Windows authentication. An Adept Administrator can always authenticate ADM 

directly in Adept with the Adept Password.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 8 of 28

Mode3:  Domain Login options:   Windows Username Only 
When the Adept Admin sets the authentication as Windows Username Only and the Adept Desktop Client user did NOT check the 
option to Enable Auto Login in the Adept Login dialog, the user only needs to enter their Windows Username but does NOT need to 
enter their Windows password.  The server then authenticates using only the UserName against the Windows domain UserName.  This 
domain is supplied by the Adept Admin in the Edit/Options/Authentication dialog.  If the Username does not match the name under 
which they are currently logged into Windows, then the behavior reverts to Mode Two and requests the Windows User Name and 
Password. 

Note:  Authentication requires that the User Name in Adept be identical to the User Name in Windows. This is not a 
secure method of authentication.

When the Adept Admin sets the authentication as Windows Username Only and the Adept Desktop Client user checks the option to 
Enable Auto Login on the Login dialog, Adept automatically logs in as the user currently logged into workstation as long as the 
Workstation UserName is a valid Adept Windows Username. 

Note:  The ADM login does not use Windows authentication. An Adept Admin can always authenticate ADM directly in 
Adept with the Adept Password.

Mode Three is not applicable to Adept Web Client or web server-based application users and if set, will revert to Mode2, Windows 
Username and Password. The first time the user logs in, the user must enter username and password. If, while logging in, the user also 
enables the Auto Login function, subsequent logins will not require any credential input. Enable Auto Login will function for 30 days, then 
resets, requiring the user to enter username and password again.

Mixed Mode Authentication
It is possible to configure Adept to allow some users to authenticate using Active Directory and other users to authenticate using Adept 
Authentication.  When a user logs into Adept and the user’s login name is not found in Active Directory the user can still login if the user’s 
User Profile has a value of “Adept” in the Active Directory domain name field.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Email Notification
Go to the Email Notification page of Options to set up the Adept email notification.  On the Tools tab, select the Options command and 
select the Email Notification page.  Email Notification requires that the "to" addresses for each Adept user are set in their User Profile. 
 Define SMTP servers in the Server SMTP page of the Options.  If no SMTP server is specified in the User Profile, Adept uses the available 
MAPI application. 

The first three options provide a centralized method to turn on or off the ability to send email notification.  When the option on this 
dialog is disabled, all the associated email notifications are disabled.  When the option is enabled, any email notifications you have set up 
in Workflow or Assign will become activated.  

To set individual instances of notification, see the appropriate topics: Workflow Alerts, and Email notification. 

Send Email When Assigned
When a document is assigned, Adept can send an email to notify the assignee.  Disabling this option turns off all such notification.  
The option to Allow sender to edit interrupts the sending of mail so users can edit it.  Since this ability is not available in SMTP, when the 
option is set, Adept will try to use a default MAPI server if one is available.

Allow Email to Workflow Reviewers
When a document is checked into a workflow, Adept can notify all reviewers in that step.  This option also controls notice to the 
originator of the workflow for Final Approval.  The option to Allow sender to edit interrupts the sending of mail so users can edit it.  Since 
this ability is not available in SMTP, when the option is set Adept will try to use a default MAPI server if one is available.

Allow Email Alerts
Adept can Alert a list of users if a document has been in a workflow step longer than the timeout.  This option does not permit user 
editing and must be sent through SMTP.  See the topic Workflow Alert for more information.

Email Setup
For Email Alerts, you cannot edit the email because the email alerts are sent through the SMTP server which does not allow editing.  To 
help customize these automated email alerts, use the Email Setup... dialog to set up a subject line, header and footer for these emails.

Note: Inbox notification is not affected by email options. Adept always adds the record to the user’s Inbox if the 
document has been assigned to a user, or if a document enters a workflow step for which the user is a reviewer. 

Adept Web Server URL Root

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 9 of 28

When the administrator fills the root of your Adept Web Client server site into this field, it will allow users to send a URL that can be used 
in Adept Web Client.  Use this example, https://[machinename]/synergis.webapp filling in the machinename of your Adept Web Client 
server.

When you approve a document in workflow, and if the workflow step allows email notification, the email includes an *.als file that 
contains a link to the document you approved.  If the recipient has installed Adept and has access to the same Data Source as you do, 
double-clicking on the AdeptList file brings up Adept with the documents listed in the Search Results window.  Your System Administrator 
can extend the feature of a link file to include Adept Web Client users by entering the URL of the Adept Web server here.  When you have 
done so, the email notification will include a URL that you can paste into the Adept Web Client.  When you navigate to the URL, the 
documents will appear in the recipient's Adept Web Client Search Results window.

Note: This URL is also used by the Adept Web Clients and the Adept CAD Integrations that are WebAPI-based. This URL is 
used for the Document New command in those applications for connecting to the Adept Web Server to acquire the 
needed templates. Failure to have this URL properly configured will cause the Document New command to fail for 
those users.

.als lists - Lifespan in Days: Lifespan limit: 0 = Unlimited
When Adept sends emails, (See Send to), it includes a list of the associated documents.  These lists, when attached to an email, are stored 
in list files with an extension of .als.  When sent to the Web Browser client, the lists are stored on the server so they can be referenced by 
the Web Browser Client.  In order to prevent the collection of lists on the server from growing indefinitely, Adept removes older ones 
automatically.  Set this lifespan to establish the timeout period.  Notifications older than this period are automatically removed from the 
server.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Server SMTP
Select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Server SMTP.

Server SMTP Settings
The Server SMTP is used for various emails throughout the system.  These emails, including email alerts, are issued by the server itself 
without needing anyone to be logged in. Therefore, the server is setup independent of any particular user.
· Enter the SMTP Server and SMTP Port information
· Enter the Server's 'From' Address that will automatically be used by the email
· Check the Enable SSL option when encrypted emails are required

Note: SMTP is used by the Adept Web Clients, web services-based Adept CAD Integrations, and other Adept features that 
use email notifications. Failure to have SMTP properly configured will cause email notifications from those 
features to fail being sent.

Send Test to confirm SMTP Settings
To ensure that you have established communication with the SMTP server, select the Send Test button.

Enter a valid email address into the To: field, enter the body of the email and select OK. Adept will send an email to the specified address. 
When it is configured correctly, the recipient will receive this test email.

Authentication
If your SMTP Server requires authentication, check this option and enter a Login name and password.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Watermarks
Adept Administrators can set Watermark options to label all documents printed from the Using Viewer command on the Documents tab 
in the Adept ribbon or from the Adept Viewer. Watermarks are also known as Print Labels or Banners. Set the watermarks by selecting 
the Options from the backstage, or on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Watermarks in the tree view. 

Note: Non-administrators will see these settings under the Watermarks tab of the Use Viewer, Printing command, but only 
administrators can change them.

For each watermark, you can add the Date, Time and User name by clicking your cursor in the label field, and then clicking the appropriate 
button. This adds placeholders that will be filled in with the appropriate information when the document is printed.

Insert Field Info

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 10 of 28

You can insert a field from the associated data card data into the watermark. To do so, select the field name from the drop-down list. 
Then select either "Name" to insert the name of the field or "Value" to insert the value.

Note: Administrators can set the color of the watermarks in the Viewer options document. Learn more about this option 
in Adept Installation Guide.

If the watermark field is blank, no watermark is displayed.

Watermark Depends on Document State, Existence of Work In Progress, and the Promotion Option
Administrators can set different watermarks for documents in a variety of states in the workflow and routing process. In some cases, the 
value of the watermark will differ depending on the option you select for Watermark Promotion. 
The two Watermark Promotion options are:
· Watermarks Reflect the Document Status
· Watermarks Reflect the Status of the Most Current Version

When selecting the Watermark Promotion option Watermarks Reflect the Document Status the following apply:

Current Version
This Watermark is used when you print the IN version, regardless of whether there is also a copy on HOLD or OUT.

Previous Version
This watermark is used when you print a previous Version. You can access these documents by selecting them from the Document 
Dashboard Versions tab or by searching in the Version database… 

Work on Hold or Review
When you print a document that is currently on Hold or Review, this watermark is displayed. 

Work Out to Current Operator
When you print a document that is currently out to you (Status is Out.)

Work Out to Other Operator
The document is checked out to someone else. Since you can’t view these documents, this watermark is never used.

Work that is New
Documents in your work area with a Status of New or Duplicate.

When selecting the Watermark Promotion option Watermarks Reflect the Status of the Most Current Version

Current Version
This watermark is used when you view the Library copy of the document, (status is IN), unless you or someone else also have that 
document checked out.

Previous Version
This watermark is used when you have pointed to the versioned document in the Document Dashboard or if you searched for the 
document in the Version database. (status is Versioned)

Work on Hold or Review
This watermark is used when the document's status is Hold or Review (even if the Information Source is set to Library).  
This watermark will be used even if you are actually printing the version of the document that is IN.

Work Out to Current Operator
This watermark is used when the document is currently OUT to you (even if the Information Source is set to Library).  Note that this 
watermark will be used even if you are actually printing the version that is IN. 

Work Out to Other Operator
The document is checked out to someone else.  This watermark is used for a document that has a copy Out to someone else (even if the 
information Source is set to Library).

Work that is New
Documents in the user's work area with a Status of New or Duplicate.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 11 of 28

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Virtual Library
To set the Virtual Library options, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Virtual Library from the tree 
view on the left side of the dialog.

Grant write permission ...
The Virtual Library is used by Adept for temporary storage of documents (children) needed, and any documents in the Virtual Library that 
are not saved.  Any changes made to documents in the Adept Virtual Library will eventually be lost.  To prevent users from making 
changes to documents in the Virtual Library, Adept sets permissions to these documents to read-only.  However, some applications 
require that documents in the Virtual Library be given read-write permissions to work properly. To accommodate this requirement, Adept 
provides the option to specify which documents placed in the Virtual Library will be given read-write permissions.  Simply list the 
extension of the documents you wish to be made read-write, separating each extension with a semi-colon. For example, 
.SLDRPT;.SLDASM;.SLDDRW. After you enter extensions into this field, documents meeting this criteria have read-write permissions.

Note: Use this field cautiously. When documents in the Virtual Library are read-write, you could inadvertently save 
changes to documents in the Virtual Library.  Such changes will be lost as Adept will eventually refresh the Virtual 
Library with versions of those documents from the Adept Library. If you need to use this field, follow the 
recommendations offered by Synergis Support.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Properties and Attributes
To set the Properties/Attribute options, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Properties/Attribute in 
the tree view.

· Never blank data in the database
Even if the mapped field in the document is blank, leave the extraction field in the Adept database unchanged.

Warning: If you have already entered information into these extraction fields in the database, the following two 
options can overwrite this data.

· Blank data in the database when the extraction item exists in the document and is blank
When the document contains a mapped field that is blank, blank the corresponding extraction field in the Adept database. 
 However, if there is no such field in the document, leave the Adept database field alone.

· Blank data in the database when the extraction item does not exist in the file
If the mapped field in the document is blank, or if there is no such mapped field in the document, blank the corresponding 
extraction field in the Adept database.

Note: This only blanks out database fields for document types that are mapped. In other words, if the mapped 
extraction field is for an Inventor document, this field will never be blanked out for a TXT document.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Relationships
Adept tracks relationships among documents and displays the relationships in the Document Dashboard.  These options affect the way 
relationships are handled and displayed. To set options for Relationships, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, 
then select Relationships in the tree view.

Default Parent/Child Version Behavior 
When you synchronize existing documents, or when you create a new Work Area in a directory with existing documents, or copy new 
documents into your Work Area, Adept finds any externally referenced documents, and assigns the relationship a default behavior, 
depending on which radio button you select.   Options are Float, Fix or Dock.
See the topic Version Locking of Child Document to learn the difference between these three behaviors.

Default Behavior on Synchronize Applies To
When Adept Synchronizes or Extracts information from a document that has already been entered in Adept, it can either apply the 
default behavior to all external references, or it can apply the behavior only to external references that were created outside of Adept. 
 If you set this radio button to apply the default behavior to All Relationships, then whenever you Synchronize, the Default Behavior 
applies to all relationships, overriding any Parent/Child version settings that were set previously.  If you set this radio button to apply 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 12 of 28

the default behavior to New Relationships only, any existing Parent/Child behavior in your documents is kept, and the default behavior 
is applied only to relationships that are not yet recorded in the Adept database. 

Note: the latter condition occurs only when a user has used Windows Explorer to insert a copy of a document into a 
Work Area or Library

Caution: When you select "Default Behavior Applies to All Relationships" you will overwrite your existing connection to 
Versions.  If, for example, you have selected a particular version level, this will be replaced with either “Dock,” 
"Float” or “Fix” relationship. See Document Relationships for more information.

Note: You can manually set the Version level of a child from the  Document Dashboard, at any time

On Check In & Approve
Force children with parent 
When a user checks in a document that has Children, Adept looks for Children that are referenced by the checked in document.  If any 
of these children documents are currently checked out to the same user, or if the user has created new attachments to the checked in 
document, all these documents are presented in the Check In dialog box.  
If the Administrator has checked the option Force children with parent, the user must check in all these Children.  
If the Administrator does not check this option, users have the option to unselect these dependent documents.

Attempt to resolve unresolved children
When you synchronize or check in documents, Adept will search all Libraries to resolve external references.  To speed up the search, 
you can instruct Adept to search only specific Libraries in a specific order.  Specify the search order by selecting Edit Search Order of 
Unresolved Children in the Administration flyout of the Admin menu.
The search to resolve external references won’t succeed if the document doesn’t exist in Adept, or if it doesn’t exist in the specified 
search path. When Adept cannot find an externally referenced document, it adds the parent document to a list of documents that 
contain unresolved references.  Then, whenever you check in a document, Adept checks through the list of unresolved references to 
see if the document you are checking in satisfies any of the missing names.  This will be valuable for resolving unresolved external 
references.  However, the operation does take time, and if you have a large number of unresolved references, it could affect the speed 
of checking in documents.

You can speed up the check in operation, (without resolving the missing relationships), by unchecking the option box.  This indicates 
Adept is to skip the search operation, so it will no longer attempt to resolve unresolved children.  Generally, this should be used only as 
a temporary workaround, while you use other strategies to resolve all unresolved relationships.

When Editing, Viewing, or Refreshing the Virtual Library
When the option to Virtualize manually related files (relationships for unlinked records),  it copies all the children of the document into 
the Virtual Library.  This provides a read-only copy to be used for references by a parent. Typically many compound documents, such as 
Inventor or SOLIDWORKS, require these children documents to be available for reference.  Copying all these children requires a 
significant amount of network traffic.

Copying children into the Virtual Library may not be so important, for example, when you have an unlinked record that you are using as 
the parent of a manual relationship.  This option defaults as checked to preserve behavior from previous versions of Adept.  However, 
unless you have integration or custom programming which knows how to find and take advantage of these Virtualized documents, it is 
unlikely that you will receive any benefit from them.  To avoid unnecessary network traffic, uncheck this option.

Special Folders and Relationship Display Depth
Ignore Unresolved Children from these Folders
In some cases, documents are created on the network, but Adept is not yet aware that the documents are there.  Ordinarily, this could 
cause Adept to display an error.  This option, Ignore Unresolved Children instructs Adept to ignore the error, so no error condition is 
displayed in the  Document Dashboard for documents in the listed folders.

Maximum Display
This option limits the relationships depth used when populating the  Document Dashboard.  For installations with very large 
relationship trees, this setting can prevent the very long waits resulting from the  Document Dashboard trying to display the entire tree. 
 The default is 100,000. You can set it higher if you believe larger relationships may be needed..

See SOLIDWORKS Toolbox for an example of where this setting would be useful.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Audit Trail
This dialog controls whether or not the Audit Trail is accessible to users and controls what commands Adept tracks in the Audit Trail.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 13 of 28

Enable Audit Trail
Check the box for Enable Audit Trail turn on the Audit Trail for users.  Uncheck the box to disable the Audit Trail.

Audit Trail Options
The other options on this dialog control which commands are stored in the Audit Trail.  Check the boxes for those options you wish to 
store in the Audit Trail.  Uncheck the boxes for the options that are not to be stored in the Audit Trail.
The more options you enable, the larger the size of the Audit Trail. When you disable any of the Audit Trail options in this dialog, the 
associated commands will no longer be saved. 

Note: You can also move records from the active Audit Trail to an archive database using the Manage Audit Trail option. 
See the Adept Designer for more information about this option.

To see a complete list of the Audit Trail commands controlled by this dialog, select the Display Events for each Checkbox command in the 
lower right corner of the Audit Trail Options dialog. The resulting list will be displayed in a text document and can be scanned directly or 
copied and pasted into Excel and then sorted.

Here is an example of a snip of the Display Events for each Checkbox report:
Check In-Check Out corresponds with the option check box on the Options Audit Trail dialog.
The commands in the left column correspond with the Adept command that caused the event.
The numbers in the second column correspond with the Audit Trail code stored in the database
The right-most column corresponds with the "Type of Command" in the Search Audit Trail dialog.

**** Audit trail events, grouped by filter group  ****

Check In-Check Out
Acquire Check Out                12        Edit
Create Bill of Material                174        PlugIn
Create Transmittal                172        PlugIn
New Document                        1        Edit
Release Check Out                11        Edit
Release Unchanged Children        298        Edit
Check In Document                3        Edit
Check Out Document                4        Edit
Undo Check Out                        299        Edit

Commands included in these Audit Trail Options:

View > Documents Document Management > Managing
Print Documents Delete Document
View Document Link Document

Unlink Document
View > Markup

Markup Document Document Management > Archive
Archive

Edit > Check In-Check Out Restore Archive
Acquire Check Out
New Document Document Management > Transmittal
Release Check Out Add Field - Transmittal Table 
Check In Document Delete Field - Transmittal Table 
Check Out Document Modify Field - Transmittal Table 

Add Field - Job Table 
Edit > Data Card Delete Field - Job Table 

Batch Update Modify Field - Job Table 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 14 of 28

Update Doc & Data Card New Transmittal 
Update Data Card Attach Document 

Remove Document
Edit > Open New Template 

Batch Open and Save Edit Template 
Open Default Delete Template 
Open Custom Copy Template 
Open Add Company 
Open Read Only Edit Company 

Delete Company
Add Client 

Edit > Relationships Edit Client 
Edit DD Revisions Delete Client 
Set Dock Add CC List 
Set Fixed Edit CC List 
Set Float Delete CC List 
Set Child Version to fix WIP Add Job 
Create Relationship Edit Job 
Delete Relationship Delete Job 
Edit Relationships Edit Transmittal Data 
Get Path Send Transmittal 
Replace Child Admin Transmittal Report

Edit > Other
Copy Document Administration > Users, Groups, Libraries
Move Document Add Group
Rename Document Add Library

Send Documents to Email Add User
Send Documents to Zip Assign Group to Lib
Send Links to Email Assign User to Group
Send Links to Document Assign Workflow To Library
Send To Assign Rights to Library
Set Document Type Copy Settings to User

Delete Group
Workflow > Workflow Delete Library

AutoAdvance Workflow Delete User
Approve Document Disable User
Reroute Workflow Modify Library
Create Version Modify User
Delete From WIP Enable User
Delete Version Modify Group
Expedite Approve Remove Group from Lib

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 15 of 28

Expedite Reject Remove User from Group
Reject Synchronize
Reject To System User Group Library Dialog
Rollback Version Add Vault
Set Document Workflow Edit Vault

Remove Vault
Workflow > Other Refresh Full Text Search Catalog

Assign Documents
Clear Markups Administration > Admin Workflow
Unassign Create Workflow
Workflow Document Timeout Delete Workflow

Edit Workflow
Server Background Tasks > Active Directory

Administration > Database fields/templates
Server Background Tasks > Workflow Timeouts Configure Fields

Configure Document Types
PlugIn Manager

Administration > Other
Admin SWA
Bump Admin Version
Changed Admin Option
Email Broadcast
Lock System
Shared WorkArea Admin
Unlock System
Verify Document Linkage
Admin Local Data Cache
Archive Audit Trail Records

Other > Login-Logout
Log Out
Log In

Other > Other
Everything not covered elsewhere

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Full Text Search
To enable Full Text Search

1. Log in to Adept as an Admin, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Full Text Search in the tree on 
the left side of the Adept Options dialog. 

2. Check the box to Enable FTS
3. Decide which document extensions are to be included or excluded from Full Text Search in Options. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 16 of 28

  For example if you don’t want to extract data from tiff, gif, or jpg, do one of the following:
a. select the Include option and remove those extensions from the Include field
b. select the Exclude option and enter these extensions (separated by a semicolon) in the Exclude field.  

You can either list extensions to exclude or to include but not both. To search all extensions, click the Exclude button and leave it 
blank. This will include all extensions.
To reset the Include/Exclude extensions to the defaults, select the Reset to Defaults command button.

4. Next, Enable FTS for each Library you want to be able to do a Full Text Search. 
a. From the Admin or System tab, select the User, Groups, Libraries Administration command to open the Library Administratoin 

dialog. 
b. Select one or more libraries and select Modify Library
c. Select Define Library Settings, then select Enable FTS.   This applies only to the selected Library(s).  You can also choose to 

include the document versions as well.
 After selecting OK, notice a black dot appears on the glyph for that library.

Important Note: When you enable FTS, it begins extracting Content Information forward in time. But during the period 
when the option was disabled, any documents you checked in or synchronized were not extracted. Therefore, 
when you enable this option, either here, or for an individual Library, you must re-extract data, either using the 
Refresh command or the Extract command, or Synchronizing the Library.

See: To Modify More Than One Library Profile

Installation, Setup and Troubleshooting Full Text Search
For detailed installation instructions, review the Appendix for Full Text Search in the Adept Installation Guide. For instructions on 
troubleshooting Full Text Search, see the related Troubleshooting topic.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Active Directory
Adept Administrators are able to connect Adept Users and Groups to Active Directory Users and Groups.  When these links are 
established, the Adept Server will have the option to monitor Active Directory, and when changes have been made in Active Directory, the 
corresponding changes can be automatically made in Adept.
To set Options for the Active Directory features, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Active Directory 
from the tree view. 

Active Directory polling
In the Active Directory options dialog you will be able to enable polling, enable notifications, and indicate if a new Adept user account is to 
be created automatically for each new Active Directory user.
You can manually or automatically poll, in a specified timeframe, the Active Directory for new Users and/or new Groups.

Enable polling
1. Check the box to Enable polling
2. Specify the amount of time that will elapse between synchronization checks.  The polling interval is set in hours and minutes (ex: 1h 

30m)
 After the specified period of time, Adept Server checks Active Directory to see what has changed.  

If the Enable polling checkbox is clear, the polling Intervals is disabled,and the time set to 0.

Note: When you change the polling interval, the new interval will not take effect until the next cycle set under the 
previous interval. For example, if there are still 12 hours until the next poll, and you set the interval to 1 hour, this 
won’t take effect until the 12 hour interval has elapsed. 

Note: To initiate an update of linked Active Directory Users and Groups immediately, select the Synchronize Now 
command in the System tab, Active Directory panel. This will initiate a Synchronize without changing the Polling 
interval or start time. Or select the Start/Restart polling of Active Directory command on the System tab. If the 
Polling is already in operation, this will trigger a Synchronization and also starts the polling interval from now.

Note: The polling interval must not be less than 5 minutes or greater than 168 hours.
Note: If you are implementing the Adept Active Directory integration, your AdeptServer.exe (or Server as a Service) must 

have rights to access the Active Directory on all applicable domains.

If you are enabling polling for the first time, or changing the parameters, close the Options dialog and select the Start/Restart Polling 
command on the System tab of the ribbon, in order to start polling or to set the latest parameters into effect.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 17 of 28

Change Notification
When Enable notification is enabled, an email is sent to the Recipient's  email address (specified in the Active Directory options dialog) 
 whenever Active Directory makes a change in the Adept user table. In order to send the email notification, you must set up the SMTP 
server from the Email Notification Options menu.

Adept response to events in Active Directory
When new users are discovered in Active Directory Groups
When Adept Server detects a user in an Active Directory Linked Group who has already been linked to Adept, that user will be added to 
the Linked Group in Adept.
If there is a new user in the Group who was not previously imported into Adept, the resulting action is determined by the option 
“Create a new Adept user account.” 

Create a new Adept user account
When Create a new Adept user account is enabled, Adept attempts to create a new user. In attempting to create the user, Adept will 
first check to see if a user of that first name and last name already exists in Adept. If it does, the User will be linked and added to the 
Adept Group. If it does not, the user will be Created and added to the Adept Group. 
When Create a new Adept user account is disabled, no new user is added, and no attempt is made to link an existing user.

When linked users or groups are deleted in Active Directory
When linked users are deleted from Active Directory, they are disabled in Adept and unlinked from Active Directory.
When linked groups are deleted from Active Directory, they are unlinked from Active Directory.

For more information see:
Active Directory Commands
Active Directory: Overview and Definitions
Active Directory Import/Synchronize Groups
Active Directory Import/Synchronize Users

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Transmittal & Reports
The Transmittal & Report Adept Options dialog provides several options related to sending Transmittals and generating Reports.
Select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Transmittal & Reports from the tree view.

Transmittal
You can set rules for what documents are allowed to be included in a transmittal.
· Require that all attachments have a status of IN
· Allow Sender to edit email addresses
· Write transmittal summary to memo field of the Transmittal record

Date Rendering
Render dates using the Adept format (ignore date format in template)

Quick Report Templates
When you create a formatted report using the Quick Report command on the Collaborate tab of the Adept main ribbon, Adept uses a 
predetermined template in order to format the data that appears in your window.  The default template is selected here.  Because the 
Audit Trail Quick Report uses a different set of options than the document quick report, you must choose a default template for each 
type.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: User Circles
At Adept sites with a large number of users, the length of User lists can grow large. This should not be a problem in most user lists 
throughout Adept because most lists will automatically be limited to those users who have the rights to participate in the operation. For 
example, when you assign a document to another user, only those users who have rights to the Library will be displayed.

However, when you are sharing an Adept object with other users, the list is not limited by user rights. You can share with anyone in the 
system. To help reduce the length of user lists in the Sharing option, you can take advantage of User Circles. 
When Enable User Circles is checked, some dialogs will have the option Only show Users from my Circle (xx users).
When the Administrator disables User Circles, for example when there are few users in Adept, users will not see the checkbox option for 
only showing users from their circle.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 18 of 28

Each User Circle consists of:
· All the members of any Library Access Groups in which the user is also a member
· All the members of the personal groups which the user has created.

For example, if Ted New is a member of Library Access Group named Engineers and Ted created the Personal Group named Piping, then 
Ted's User Circle will consist of all the members of "Engineers" plus all the members of "Piping." Typically the number of members in the 
User Circle will be far fewer than are listed for the whole Adept site. 

To set the User Circles options, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select User Circles in the tree view. 

Excluded Groups
User Circles might grow very large if your installation includes groups with a large number of members. For example, if you happen to 
have a Library Access Group that contains every member of your Adept site (an all-user's group), then every member's User Circle will also 
include all users. To reduce the size of User Circles, you can exclude very large groups from the calculation.

User Circle Analysis
Click the User Circle Analysis button to generate a text report that shows you a list of users, and the size of their user circles.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Options: Localization
Administrators can set the languages that are available to users.  Select the Options command from the Backstage button menu (to the 
left of the ribbon tabs) or from the Tools tab in the ribbon.  Then select Localization from the tree view.  This dialog lists the languages 
installed on your system. Select the ones you want to make available to users. 

Note:  You cannot unselect English.
When logging in to Adept, users can then choose the language they want to use in the Adept interface.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Active Directory: Overview and Definitions
Adept can import users and groups directly from Windows Active Directory using the Adept Active Directory Integration. Once these 
Users and Groups are imported, the Adept Administrator can set Adept Server to periodically look for changes in Windows Active 
Directory and automatically update Adept user information and group membership. This will automatically maintain the credentials of 
your users, reducing or eliminating duplicate efforts.

Note:  To run Active Directory polling, the Adept Server or Adept Service must have rights to read the Active Directory on 
the Windows Server.

Definitions:
Linked User
A user in Adept who has been uniquely associated with a user in Active Directory

Linked Group
A group in Adept that has been uniquely associated with a group in Active Directory

Unlinked User
When a User is first created in Adept, it is Unlinked, meaning it has no relationship to Active Directory.  You can change a Linked User to 
an Unlinked one by using the Unlink command

Unlinked Group
When a Group is first created in Adept, it has no relationship to Active Directory.  This is an Unlinked Group. If a Linked Group is deleted in 
Active Directory, it can revert back to being an Unlinked Group, depending on Admin options.

Import user or group from Active Directory
From Adept, Browse into Active Directory and pull over (import) users or groups.  After being Imported, the Groups or Users are then 
Linked.

Polling
Polling is a timer that Adept Server uses to periodically check for changes in Active Directory.  Polling is enabled or disabled, and a polling 
interval set in the Options, select the Options command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Active Directory. 

Synchronize Active Directory
Synchronize is an operation in the Adept Active Directory feature.  Synchronizing can be triggered in two ways.  If polling is enabled, 
Synchronization is automatically triggered periodically.  There is also a Synchronize Now command in the Active Directory panel on the 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 19 of 28

System tab of the ribbon.  During Synchronize, any changes made in Active Directory will be applied to Adept.  Data that will be changed 
include: User Name, and Email Address, and membership in a Group.  Some actions depend on optional settings in Adept.  If a user has 
been added to a group in Active Directory, that user may or may not be added to the Group in Adept.

Note:  When Adept detects that a linked user has been deleted from Active Directory, the user will be disabled in Adept

For more information see:
Active Directory Commands
Active Directory: Overview and Definitions
Options: Active Directory
Active Directory Import/Synchronize Groups
Active Directory Import/Synchronize Users

Navigation:  Administrator >

Active Directory: Commands
There are several commands that enable you to integrate Adept users and groups with Windows Active Directory.  These commands are 
accessed in the System tab ribbon or from the Library Administration window:

·  Select the System tab in the main ribbon, then select one of the Active Directory commands:

· Select the Admin or System tab in the main Adept ribbon, then select the Users, Groups, and Libraries command button to open the 
Library Administration window.  Right-click within this window to access:

Active Directory Commands accessible the Right-click menu of the User, Group, and Library Administration window

Import Users 
In the Adept User, Group, and Library Administration Window (UGLA), a right-click option allows administrators to Import Users from 
Active Directory. This adds the user to Adept and creates a Linked User. 

Link User
In the Adept User, Group, and Library Administration Window (UGLA), a right-click option allows administrators to point to an existing 
Adept user, and then navigate to a corresponding user in Active Directory. After issuing the Link User command, the user is linked.

Import Groups 
In the Adept User, Group, and Library Administration Window (UGLA), there is a right-click option that allows administrators to Import 
Groups from Active Directory. This creates a Linked Group in Adept. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 20 of 28

Active Directory Commands in the Active Directory panel of the System tab of the ribbon
You can issue commands to the Active Directory integration by selecting them in the Active Directory panel of the System tab of the 
ribbon. When issuing these commands, the UGLA must be closed.

Start/restart polling of Active Directory
This command starts or restarts polling. This command only starts polling if the option is enabled in the Options: Active Directory dialog. If 
polling is enabled but not yet started, this command starts it. If polling is already enabled and running, this command restarts it, using the 
current polling options. 

Restart is useful if you want to reset the polling clock, starting now. It is also useful if you have changed the polling parameters. The 
restart is needed in order to apply the polling parameters.

To change polling options, go into the Options page, change the options and come back here to restart.

Stop polling
Stop polling for Active Directory changes at the Adept Server. After the timer is stopped, there will be no more automatic synchronization 
with Active Directory. You can implement synchronization any time by selecting Synchronize Now. Or you can Start Polling.

Synchronize now 
Synchronize users and groups against Active Directory without polling. Note that when you synchronize, all linked users in linked Groups 
are added to Adept. This could possibly result in an influx of new users being added to Adept.

For more information see:
Active Directory Commands
Active Directory: Overview and Definitions
Options: Active Directory
Active Directory Import/Synchronize Groups
Active Directory Import/Synchronize Users

Navigation:  Administrator >

Translate Admin-Defined Strings
If Adept supports your language, users are already able to display menus and dialogs in their local language. In addition, some strings in 
Adept dialogs are defined by the System Administrator. Use the Adept "Translate Admin-Defined Strings" dialog to help you translate 
these strings. This allows you to create custom translations for a number of Admin-defined strings located in various places in the 
product.

When you run the command, Adept pulls these strings into a grid, and provides you with an opportunity to enter strings in other 
languages. To run this tool, select the Maintenance command on the System tab of the ribbon, select the Miscellaneous command, then 
select Translate Strings from the menu to open the Translate Admin-defined strings dialog.

From the drop-down list at the top of the dialog, select the language you want to modify. For example, if you want to edit some of the 
values for Canadian French, select that language from the Language dropdown. 

From the list on the left, select one of the following to display in the grid on the right:
· Options - displays Email Subjects, Headers and Footers and Watermarks
· Columns - displays Column Names
· FileGuides - displays View Names
· Data Cards - displays Data Card Names, Data Card Tab Names, Data Card Prompt Values and the Memo Tab Name

The values you fill into these rows become available whenever you select the target language. 

Comments
The column labeled Comment is only displayed here in the Translate tool to remind you of the meaning of each row. The strings in the 
Comment column do not appear anywhere else in the product.

Note: You can only edit the Comment column when you have selected English language. (It is assumed that English is the 
administrative language.)

From the File Menu

Export

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 21 of 28

Select the Excel Spreadsheet command on the Collaborate tab of the ribbon to output an XML file with strings that can be translated by a 
third party translator. The file can also be edited by you.

Import from Translation Service
Indicate a file that was exported from the Translate Admin-Defined Strings command

The following represents Adept text strings that are not translated due to their specific usage in the Adept application:
Active Directory, Adept, Admin, Administration, AFS, ARX, AutoCAD, AutoCAD Electrical, AutoCAD Mechanical, AutoName, AutoVue, DDE, 
Excel, FileGuide, FTP, iAssemblies, Inventor, MAPI, MicroStation, OK, OS, PlugIn, PublishWave, DD, SMTP, SOLIDWORKS, SWA, Synch, 
Synergis Adept, Tools, Windows, WIP, WIP: Versions, Word.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Temporary Directory
Adept creates temporary documents for many of its operations, such as searching and sorting. These temporary documents are placed in 
a directory beneath the Support directory. The Support directory location is listed in the Workstation Options dialog box. You may move 
the Support directory to a new drive by clicking the browse button in the Workstation Options dialog.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Paths
There are a number of network areas that are tracked by Adept:
· Vaults
· Libraries
· Versions
· Holding Areas
· Archive area
· New Document Templates

The network path to the Vaults are set in the Vault Profile, and the library directories are set in the Library Profile.  New libraries can be 
added while other users are logged in, but to change the path to an existing library, all users must be logged off, and Adept must be 
Locked for Maintenance.

The Version folders are located beneath each library. The name of the Version and Holding directory is created by Adept.  All Adept 
version folders are pre-pended with the keyword "ADLIB_".  Then the body of the folder name consists of the Unique Library ID. This is a 
computer generated number called a GUID.  If you need to identify the exact number for a particular library, you can look it up in the 
Library Profile or generate a System Report.

So for a version 3.2 , in a Library named, My_Test, the document would be stored in a folder named ADLIB_<computer generated 
GUID>/3.2.

The Archive area is set in the Archive dialog box.

New Document Templates are stored as fields in the database, not as documents on the disk, so the path is not important except for 
importing new ones.

In addition to the directories listed above, there are two local paths required by Adept:
· Work Areas
· Support directory

In the Work Area window, the path to each work area may be set by the user, and can be added or changed by the user at any time. 

The Support Directory usually is stored on the workstation.  The default location is AdeptSupport, and is listed in the Workstation Options
dialog box.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Changing Paths
You can change the paths of directories managed by Adept.

Change the paths to Libraries from the Library Profile dialog box.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 22 of 28

Change the paths of Vaults from the Vault Profile dialog box.

Change individual paths to your Work Areas from the Edit Work Area dialog in the Work Area window.

Adept paths use Universal Naming Convention (UNC). That means that paths reference the name of the workstation, rather than the 
mapped drive letter. If you move your Adept directories to a new server, you must adjust your Adept paths accordingly. When you move 
your Work Areas to a new workstation, the paths to the Work Area are no longer valid and must be renamed.

When you change the path to a directory tracked by Adept, you need to be aware of any documents that may already exist at these 
locations.

See also: Paths

Navigation:  Administrator >

Lock System for Maintenance
Some Administrative operations require that all users be logged off. For example, when the Administrator changes the structure of the 
database or changes the path of a Library, all users must be logged off. The Lock System for Maintenance command forces all users off the 
system. When the Lock System for Maintenance procedure is completed, all further user logins are disabled.

Note:  After you lock all users out of Adept, if you intend to work in Designer, first stop the Adept Server. This will stop all 
Adept client access to the database.

Note:  This command does NOT notify Adept users of Adept WebAPI-based products (Adept Explorer, Adept Reviewer, 
Adept Creator, WebAPI-based CAD integrations). Users of those products will be automatically logged out of 
Adept without notice. 

To Lock System for Maintenance:
1.  Select the Lock System commands on the System tab of the ribbon, then select Lock System.
2.  You may enter a message that will appear on the user's workstation for Adept Desktop Client and WebAPI-based CAD integration 

users.
       For example, you could announce why you are bringing the system down and when you expect to start it up again.
3.  Enter a Password. This is the password that will be required when you are ready to unlock the system. Be sure to remember the 

password.
4.  The dialog box shows a list of users who are currently logged in. If there are users in this list, click Begin Logoff Notification.

Note: This list may include some users who are not actually logged in. These users are on the list because their log-in 
flags are "stuck." A stuck log-in flag would have resulted from a workstation crash while they were in Adept. These 
flags do not interfere with the Lock System command. As soon as all actual current user logins have been 
disconnected from the database, the system is Locked. Adept will automatically clean up stuck flags through 
normal operation.

5.    Now Adept begins to log off users. If an Adept Desktop Client  user is busy, Adept waits and tries again periodically. 
The frequency of this polling is set by the administrator in the Admin Options dialog box under "Background, Seconds between 
Inbox and logoff tests.". If this time is set to 0, the Adept Desktop Client workstations are not polled and users will not be forced off 
the system. Adept notifies you when all users are off and the database is no longer being accessed by any user.

Now that the system is locked, the Administrator can log off and proceed to stop the Adept Server and perform necessary maintenance. 

To unlock the system, see the topic Unlock System.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Unlock System
When an Administrator has Locked the system for Maintenance, no users are allowed to log in. The Unlock System command restores 
permission for users to log in.

When an Administrator logs in, a dialog asks for the password that was entered at the time the system was locked. To continue logging in, 
you must enter this password. 

After you have logged in to Adept, you must issue an Unlock System by selecting the Lock System commands on the System tab of the 
ribbon, then select Unlock System. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 23 of 28

Any user can unlock the system if they log in using their own log in credentials and either enter the unlock password or enter the ADM 
password.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Force User Logoff
If you are in a situation that requires you to force a particular user to log off, say someone who has accidentally left themselves logged in, 
you can do so by temporarily Disabling their user account.

Steps to temporarily disable a user account:
1.   Select the Users, Groups, Libraries command to open the Library Administration window
2.   Find the user name
3.   Right click on the name and select "Disable"
4.   Wait. The time it takes to complete this logoff depends on the time it takes for the user workstation to poll the server.
5.   After the user is logged off, you may enable the account. Right-click on the user name and select Enable.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Count Current Logins
To see a list of License Types and Adept Client Types in use and licenses available to use, select the Count Logins command on the Admin 
tab of the ribbon.  This display will only show counts for the clients types and license types you have purchased.  

Navigation:  Database Fields/Metadata >

Backing up Your Data
Synergis recommends backing up databases according to your company policy in order to secure your document management data, and 
especially before you perform any operation that changes the structure of the Adept database.

You should schedule regular backups, either through the backup utility available with SQL, or with an automatically scheduled instance of 
the Adept Package Database, or both.

The Package Database utility can be run from command line switches driven by the Windows scheduler, so you can set up a routine 
packaging of your databases several times a day.  The document names output by Package Databases are coded for the date and time so 
it’s easy to distinguish them from each other.

Note: Package Databases does not back up your documents. To back up the documents in your vaults you will use your 
normal network backup procedure.  Adept also supports an Archive command which enables you to move selected 
groups of documents to offline storage.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 24 of 28

Note: There is a chance that a PackageDatabase takes place precisely at the moment a user is in the middle of writing to 
the database.  To guard against this possibility, you should perform an off-hours PackageDatabases for your daily 
backup.  For especially critical backups, just before database changes, lock the system and force everyone off 
before Packaging the Database.

Your IT department will establish procedures for backing up the Adept database to tape.  If they need to stop the Adept service, the most 
convenient option is to run the Server as a Service.  With the Server as a service, you can schedule a batch routine that will stop the 
service, compress the database, package the database to a separate compressed document, and then start the service.  Using this 
method, your tape backup software will be able to backup the packaged database.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Email Broadcast
The Email Broadcast function assists Administrators who need to make announcements to all Adept users. To initiate Email Broadcast, 
select the Maintenance command, then select the Miscellaneous pull down to select Email Broadcast. Adept will automatically create a 
new Email message in your Email software, and populate the "To:" field with all the Email addresses listed in all the user profiles.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Unique Document Names
An Administrator can:
·  Force new document names to be unique across all libraries
·  Force new document names to be unique within each Vault
·  Detect existing duplicate document names

To force unique document names, the Administrator will select the Options command on the System tab of the ribbon, then select 
Database and Login in the tree view.  In that dialog, the option enforces unique names can be set for either within a Vault or across the 
entire site.  Depending on this choice, Adept will prevent checking in documents that violate the rule for unique names. 

To detect multiple documents with the same name already checked into the Library, select the For Duplicates command on the Admin tab 
of the ribbon.  All duplicate names are then listed in the Search Results window.

Inventor users should take special interest in unique document names, because when Adept searches for related documents, it will 
choose the first one it finds.  If more than one document has the same name, this can be a problem.  For more information about the 
importance of unique document names in CAD applications, see the topic Importance of Unique Names in CAD Documents

Navigation:  Administrator >

Search for Duplicate Document Names
The Administrator has the option in Adept to force unique document names, system-wide, per Vault or not enforce. When one of the 
force unique document names option is selected, Adept does not permit new documents to be entered into the system (whether by 
Synchronizing or Check In) if a document with the same name already exists in any Library, either system-wide or per Vault.

If you are running without this option, there may be documents entered into the Adept database that have the same document name. 
You can search for all such documents by selecting the For Duplicates command on the Admin tab of the ribbon. The results of this search 
are listed in the Search Results window.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Clear Tags
If Adept terminates unexpectedly, the Adept database is stuck with the tag information that was in effect at the time of the crash. For 
example, if you are checking out a document and the computer is unplugged, the Adept database will continue to record that document 
as Tagged. When a document is tagged, Adept blocks access to that record, and so the Tag must be cleared.

To clear any unused tags, an Administrator can select one or more documents and then select the Maintenance group, then select 
Troubleshoot and select Clear Tags from the menu. This clears only the selected document(s).

Navigation:  Administrator >

Network Rights

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 25 of 28

To protect your Library documents at the Network level, set permissions for those directories to read-only rights for your users and 
read/write rights for Workflow Managers and Administrators. That way, users can check out documents from Libraries, but only Workflow 
Managers and Administrators can check documents in.

For Checked Libraries, you can set the Network Rights in the following sequence:
· For each Library, for your entire Adept user base, set Read/Only permissions from the root of each Library, and all subdirectories.
· For all Workflow Managers, set Read/Write permissions from the root of each Library, and all subdirectories.
· In Explorer, search for all documents in your Vault that are named starting with "h_" Set the rights for all these documents to 

Read/Write permissions for everyone who has editing rights. These are the Holding areas, where documents are stored waiting 
for Workflow Manager approval. All users with editing rights need permission to write documents into this area.

See the Administrator Manual for a more complete description of how to set up Network Operating Rights.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Designer
The Adept Designer is a separate executable utility that the Administrator uses for:
· Adding and modifying fields in your Adept database
· Creating and editing Adept Data Cards
· Adding and modifying FileGuide Views
· Creating a new instance of the Adept databases
· For previous users of Synergis Document Management products, migrating the database from previous versions to Adept

The Designer is a protected program that is only available to the Administrator.  The Administrator can run the Designer when other users 
are logged on.  Designer sessions are saved to a temporary document.  But to save to your working Adept databases, no other user can be 
logged in to Adept.  To save changes to the database, you need to execute the Lock System for Maintenance command in Adept and then 
log off.  Before you make changes in the Adept databases, back up your entire database, using the Export selection from the File menu in 
Designer, or run PackageDatabases.exe available in your Utility directory or from the desktop icon. 

Navigation:  Administrator >

Local Data Cache, to Optimize WAN
To speed up Adept, each workstation contains a local copy of important settings. These local tables, known as Admin tables, are copied 
down from the server when a user logs in. As long as the tables remain unchanged, no further copying is needed. But when an 
Administrator changes the Admin tables on the server, all user workstations require a fresh copy. Distributing these tables places a heavy 
load on the server. If a substantial number of users are all trying to get a new copy of the tables from the server, the queue for updates 
may create a bottleneck and create slowdowns for users already in the system and for users logging in. If you change the Admin tables 
while substantial numbers of users are logged in, you may experience such a slowdown. You can dramatically improve the performance of 
these updates by implementing a caching feature called the Local Data Cache (LDC).

The Local Data Cache (LDC) is a copy of the tables that is stored on a Local Area Network. These tables, located near the user's 
workstations, will greatly increase performance on networks that have a number of distributed locations. You can set up a Local Data 
Cache on any Local Area Network. Then, when the tables must be updated, they are copied down to the Local Data Cache, and then each 
workstation in that Local Area Network can access the tables from the LAN rather than going all the way to the server to get the updated 
information. This reduces the amount of time workstations spend waiting for the server.

To set up  Local Data Cache
Select "Local Data Cache..." from the System tab of the ribbon, then click Add or Edit.

When you add or edit a Local Data Cache, you enter the directory where the cache is stored, and the subnet mask to identify devices on 
the LAN that will access this directory.

Local Data Cache Name
Type in a display name that will be shown in the Administer Data Caches list.

Local Network Path for Data Cache
This is the folder where the local documents for this Data Cache will be stored on the network. 

Note: all users who will be accessing Adept at this location must have read and write access to this folder

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 26 of 28

Subnet Definition

IP Address
This is the address of any workstation on the LAN. The IP of the current Workstation is automatically filled in to this field, as a default 
value.  However, you can type in any IP here. It is used to calculate the range of IP Addresses that will be using this Local Data Cache.

How to find the IP addresses of user Workstations
To find the IP addresses of users who are logging in to Adept, you can use the Adept Login Report, or the Audit Trail.

Find the IP address in the Login Report
The user's most recently logged in IP address is listed in the Login report, in the Admin menu under the Reports flyout. Display the Login 
Report to see user IP Addresses.

Find the IP address in the Audit Trail
The history of the IP addresses from where users logged in will be displayed in the Audit Trail.  Select the Audit Trail command from the 
Search panel on the Admin tab of the ribbon, then set the Type of Command to Login/Logout.

Subnet Mask
Select a Subnet Mask from the dropdown list. This is the mask that will be applied to the IP Address above to calculate the range of IP 
addresses that will access this particular local cache. 

Host Address Range
This is calculated by Adept based on the IP Address and Subnet Mask. For example, an IP address of 172.16.11.63 and a subnet mask of 
255.255.255.0 result in a range of IPs from 172.16.11.0 to 172.16.11.255

What happens when the Administrator makes a change to the tables?
Periodically each workstation puts in a request to see if there is a new set of tables on the server.  If the request fails because another 
request is already being serviced, the request is dropped.  The workstation does not wait until the server is free, but returns to check 
again later.  This shortens the queue that is waiting for actions from the server.

Note:  When any user logs in, they need tables from the server. They issue the request and then wait in the queue until 
their request for tables can be fulfilled. If the tables on the server are more recent than the ones on the 
workstation, the workstation needs to get the new tables, but first it figures out if it can get them more quickly 
from a Local Data Cache.

Adept gets the workstation IP address, then scans through all the various Local Data Caches that have been defined by the admin (there 
could be many) searching for any that are on the same subnet as the workstation.

If there is access to a Local Data Cache, the workstation checks to see if the cache contains an up-to-date copy of the tables. If it does, the 
workstation copies directly from the Local Data Cache and is done. This is very fast, and does not impact the Adept Server.

If there is access to a local cache, but the tables there are not the latest, the workstation downloads the tables from the server.

The up-to-date tables that were downloaded are now copied to the local area network cache, where they will be available for other users 
on this subnet. After doing this, everyone else on that LAN subnet will get their update locally, and won’t need to request an update from 
the server.

If a client is on the same subnet, but does not have network access to the folder, they will not benefit from the feature.  It won’t create an 
error. However, it will cause an Explorer Timeout every time the workstation attempts to download new admin tables.

Troubleshooting
If a particular user has a problem with the Local Data Cache, you may be able to diagnose the problem with information provided on each 
workstation. When the Local Data Cache is being used at your installation, each workstation displays the IP address and the name of its 
associated Local Data Cache. To display this information select the Adept command from the About panel of the Help tab of the ribbon. 
Then select the Credits Info command and look for the line that says "My IP"

To optimize WAN, also see Local Vault Mirror

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 27 of 28

Local Vault Mirror is another Adept feature that reduces traffic and increases efficiency on a Wide Area Network. The Local Vault Mirror 
uses IP Masking to allow Adept to point to a replicated Vault located on a faster subnet.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Update Adept
Synergis Software releases maintenance updates through the website, www.SynergisSoftware.com. To obtain the latest version, the 
system administrator downloads the maintenance update and installs it on the server.  Then, an instance of the Client can be installed on 
the server and configured.  Finally, if Adept Update has been enabled, the client computers will be updated.  
See the Installation Guide and the Website Release Notes for more information.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Serial Number - Serialize
You can update your licenses by selecting the System tab, then from Maintenance commands, select Miscellaneous >  Serialize.  This 
displays a dialog that allows you to enter the Serial Number, Authorization Code, and license count provided by your Synergis Software 
Account Manager.  You can enter your new Authorization Code while Adept is running, and users are logged in.

Annual Subscription 
To ensure that you do not run to the end of your subscription, Adept will display a warning that the Subscription is going to expire.  When 
the subscription in Adept gets close to expiring, Admin users will receive warnings when logging into Adept. The warnings occur at 60, 45, 
30, 15, 10, and 5 days prior to expiration.  The Adept Admin(s) will receive one warning and then not receive another warning until the 
next threshold is met. (i.e. Admin logs in and gets warning that subscription expires in 60 days.  Admin will not get another warning until 
45-day threshold is met and the next at 30 days.)  When the subscription expires, the only user who will be able to log in will be the ADM 
account.

Navigation:  Administrator >

Display Disabled User Work Areas
This Admin feature allows Adept admin users see the work areas for disabled Adept users. Only Adept Admin users can enter this mode. 
 When a user is disabled in the system, sometimes the admin will want to take care of documents remaining in the work areas of disabled 
users.  Sometimes the admin disables users in the system manually and sometimes the Adept users are in synch with Active Directory and 
disabled automatically.  To enter this special mode, which is displayed with a light blue background, the admin can right-click in the tree 
of the Work Area window and select 'Display Disabled User Work Areas' or go to the Troubleshooting button on the System tab of the 
ribbon and select 'Display Disabled User Work Areas'. 

Right Side Grid Display
When you enter this mode, there is a special ribbon displayed with the Adept Document commands relevant to this special admin mode . 
These commands can be used from the ribbon or through the right-click context menu in the left tree panel or results grid.  The Admin 
may view the Data Card, Check In accessible documents, Release Check Out of accessible documents, or delete documents. Details for 
each command are shown below.  If the Admin selects any other window of Adept, this mode is automatically exited. Using the buttons of 
the Navigation Bar at the bottom of Adept to choose a different window allows for quick exiting of this mode. 

Left Side Tree View
Only disabled users with work areas are included in this display. Disabled users with no work areas will not appear in the display in this 
mode.  If a Shared Work Area has all members disabled, then it will appear in the display, however if any member of the Shared Work 
Area is still enabled, then the work area will not be displayed in this mode.  While in this mode, the Admin can use the command Remove 
Work Area to remove the Work Area from the Adept system.  Standard rules for removing work areas apply. 

Some local work areas and their contents might not be accessible due to machine name changes.  However, if the user is now using a new 
machine with a new name, the Admin can disable the user and use this command to Edit Work Area and update the work area paths with 
the new machine name. 

To assist in the taking care of documents remaining in disabled user's work areas, there is a command 'Show in Windows Explorer' to 
show the folder for the selected work area.  The Admin could remove files from that folder and place them in one of the Shared Work 
Areas or their own work area to bring back into Adept. 

Lastly, the Admin can Delete User so that disabled user accounts with no remaining WIP docs can be cleaned up.  The 'Delete User' 
command behaves in the same way as performing the command from the UGLA dialog.

Important Note: When in this special mode there are no Duplicate status documents displayed. All documents which 
have never been Checked In will be displayed with New status even if there is a document in the system with the 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Administrator Page 28 of 28

same name. In many cases there is no need to maintain any New documents although this user might have made 
edits that the company still wants to keep, so choose wisely what you do with these documents.

Important Note: When a local work area is selected in this mode, all the records are displayed in light gray font to 
remind you that access to these documents is unlikely unless the system is still running and the work area is re-
pathed using the system hidden share (C$) or in some other way which allows an admin can access the folder.

Glyph Definitions

 - This glyph appears beside each disabled user's name while in this mode.

 - This glyph signifies that the work area is a local work area and resides (or used to reside if the machine is reallocated) on the local 
hard drive of the user's workstation.

 - This glyph signifies that the work area is a network work area and might still be in the expected location.

 - This glyph signifies that the work area is a network shared work area and might still be in the expected location.

Adept Commands Available From Right Side Grid Display and in the Ribbon

Data Card
This command allows the Admin to view the meta-data for this record in Adept.

Check In
If the Admin knows the changes in the WIP document(s) are good, the Admin may Check In accessible documents with Out status. The 
document will enter the Adept Workflow associated with that Library.

Release Check Out
If the Admin wants to get rid of the changes in the WIP document(s), the Admin may Release Check Out accessible documents with Out 
status.

Delete Document
Once the Admin is clear that a New document is no longer needed, the Admin can Delete Document to send the document to the 
system Recycle Bin.

Adept Commands Available From Left Side Tree View Context menu

Delete User
Once all WIP work has been managed to the Admins satisfaction, the user account can be deleted here instead of browsing to the 
UGLA.

Edit Work Area
This command allows the Admin to manually edit the Work Area Path in order to quickly change computer names. This command is 
NOT available for Shared Work Areas.

Remove Work Area
This command obeys the system rules for deleting a work area from the system. Don't use this command before addressing all 
documents in the work area.

Show in Windows Explorer
This command allows the Admin to quickly go to the folder on the network and manage documents there.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hh9310.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 1 of 43

Navigation:  Plugins >

Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options
Set the Workstation PlugIn options for your Word integration by selecting the PlugIn Workstation command 
on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Word from the pull down list.

Use Watcher
The "watcher" program should only be turned on if requested to do so by Synergis technical support staff. 
The Synergis Watcher is a debug program used to help identify issues related to the proper integration 
between Adept and an application. Be sure to turn off the "watcher" program when done, as it will affect 
performance if left running.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Microsoft Excel: Workstation PlugIn Options
Set the Workstation PlugIn options for your Excel integration by selecting the PlugIn Workstation command 
on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Excel from the pull down list.

Use Watcher
The "watcher" program should only be turned on if requested to do so by Synergis technical support staff. 
The Synergis Watcher is a debug program used to help identify issues related to the proper integration 
between Adept and an application. Be sure to turn off the "watcher" program when done, as it will affect 
performance if left running.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PDF Extraction: Workstation PlugIn Options
Set the Workstation PlugIn options for your PDF Extraction integration by selecting the PlugIn Workstation 
command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select PDF Extraction from the pull down list.

Use Watcher
The "watcher" program should only be turned on if requested to do so by Synergis technical support staff. 
The Synergis Watcher is a debug program used to help identify issues related to the proper integration 
between Adept and an application. Be sure to turn off the "watcher" program when done, as it will affect 
performance if left running.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Properties: Workstation PlugIn Options
Set the Workstation PlugIn options for your Properties integration by selecting the PlugIn Workstation 
command on the Tools tab of the ribbon, then select Properties from the pull down list.

Use Watcher
The "watcher" program should only be turned on if requested to do so by Synergis technical support staff. 
The Synergis Watcher is a debug program used to help identify issues related to the proper integration 
between Adept and an application. Be sure to turn off the "watcher" program when done, as it will affect 
performance if left running.

Navigation:  Plugins >

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 2 of 43

Administer PlugIns
Access the Administer PlugIn dialog by selecting the Administer PlugIns command.

You can learn about the current state of each PlugIn from this dialog. The columns of T (true) and F (false) to 
the right of each PlugIn indicate if the PlugIn is Loaded, Load on Startup (LOS) or Required.

To change features of a PlugIn, including to set it as Load On Startup or Required, click the Edit button. Load 
On Startup must be set in order for the PlugIn to be loaded. See PlugIn Editor for more details.

To add a PlugIn that is not yet on the list, click the Add button. 

Order
Occasionally, you may need to control the order in which the PlugIns are executed. For example, if you have 
the Data Exporter and the Required Fields PlugIn, you need to move the Required Fields PlugIn higher in the 
list. Click the Up button so that this PlugIn checks for the Required fields first.

To test and troubleshoot, click the Load or Unload buttons. These should act immediately. After clicking Load 
or Unload, you can continue to use Adept to confirm the behavior of the PlugIn.

Note: The Administer PlugIns dialog is modeless. This means that you can leave the dialog 
open while you continue to work in Adept.

When you exit the dialog, either through Cancel or OK, your choice of Load or Unload buttons is ignored. 
After you click Cancel or OK, Adept will reload only the PlugIns for which "Load on Startup" is enabled.

Failure to Load
If the Load button seems to have no effect, you can learn more about the status of the PlugIn by clicking the 
Edit button.  For example, attempting to load the Adept Word PlugIn when there is no instance of Microsoft 
Word loaded on the machine displays a message in the Message field of the PlugIn Editor.

Custom programmers will also use the Administer PlugIns dialog to integrate their Adept API applications in 
with the software. Since the dialog is modeless, software developers can use the Load and Unload commands 
during development and testing.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn Editor
To add a PlugIn to Adept, enter data into the PlugIn Editor.  PlugIns supplied by Synergis include a *.apd file. 
 You can import this by clicking the Import button and browsing to the folder.

1. Click Import and browse to the Adept PlugIn Description file with the extension APD. 
    This contains all the parameters you need to set up the module.

Load On Startup
To activate a PlugIn, check the Load On Startup option.

Required

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 3 of 43

When you enable the Required option, the PlugIn must be loaded. If it is not, Adept refuses to start. 

Interface Name
To install PlugIns manually, type the following line:
AP_your-PlugIn-name.PI_your-PlugIn-name

For example, to install the SOLIDWORKS integration, type the following line, exactly:
AP_SOLIDWORKS.PI_SOLIDWORKS

2.  Do check the “Load on Startup” check box. Do NOT check the “Required” check box
3.  Select OK

Export
If you are developing your own API application, you can create a *.apd file by using export. 

Delete and Re-add a PlugIn
To update a PlugIn, you must delete it and re-add it. After you delete a PlugIn, you must completely exit the 
PlugIn Editor in order to finalize your change. Exiting the PlugIn Editor writes the changes to the Adept tables. 
If you need to add the PlugIn again, you can re-open the PlugIn Editor and click Add.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn Overview and Options
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Most Adept PlugIns require you to set up your preferences for the way you want the PlugIn to work. Each 
PlugIn has different parameters, and specific instructions will be provided for each PlugIn. 

If you will intend to store PlugIn data in Adept, decide if you will use an existing database field, or if you will 
add new fields. If using an existing field, check that the field width will accept the mapped property without 
truncating information

Several PlugIns share a number of common features. This topic provides an overview of some of these shared 
parameters. The PlugIns that have these shared features are:

AutoCAD
Images
Inventor
Microsoft Excel
Microsoft Word
MicroStation
Properties
XML Properties
SOLIDWORKS
PDF Extraction

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 4 of 43

To access the configuration window for each PlugIn, select the PlugIn from the Configure PlugIns command's 
fly menu on the System tab . See AutoCAD DWG PlugIn Administration to see an example of a PlugIn 
Administration dialog.

Extensions
This is a list of document extensions representing all the document types supported by the PlugIn. You must 
check the ones from which you want Adept to extract data. In the Properties PlugIn you can also add more 
document extensions to the list.

Options
This pane lists the options that are supported by this PlugIn. You must check the ones you want to operate 
when Adept examines each supported document type. Typical options include:

Extract attributes or properties
The values will be extracted into Extraction fields if present.

Extract Relationships
For supported CAD documents, Adept will extract the location of children documents.

Extract Thumbnails
For supported documents such as CAD, MS Office, and Raster, a thumbnail is extracted.

Update Document
When enabled, Adept can write values from the table out to the document.

Batch Open and Save
This instructs Adept to open the selected documents in the supported native application, and then saves and 
closes it. This is helpful for some operations, like upgrading documents to a more recent version of CAD 
software. In some cases such upgrades are required to maintain compatibility with the current integrations.

Control Opening
This option tells Adept that it’s okay to open the application. This is necessary for normal functioning of the 
integration. If you don’t have this option checked it may still be possible to open the application, but with 
unpredictable results. For example, in most cases a new instance of the application will be started each time 
an application is opened. In some cases, under the supervision of Adept Help desk, you can trouble shoot 
problems by turning off this option and allowing Windows to open the application.

Adept Extraction Fields
This lists all available Adept fields that are designated as extraction fields.

Available Data
This contains a list of properties or attributes from your documents. It is displayed to allow you to quickly and 
easily drag and drop document properties and associate them with extraction fields.

See the PlugIn Scanner to learn how to populate the Available Data list.

Mapping for Adept Extraction Field

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 5 of 43

This shows the linkage between an Adept extraction field and the property, attribute, or tag name in the 
document. You populate this list by dragging an available property to an available extraction field. When 
Adept synchronizes, checks in, or for any other reason scans a document, it checks for a mapping between an 
extraction field and a property, attribute, or tag. If it finds such a mapping, it performs the extraction or 
update and implements any other option you have specified.

Excel
Adept can address Excel values in three ways. You can extract Excel properties. You can extract or update 
Excel locations (for example, $A$1). Or you can extract or update Excel named locations.

Word
Adept can address Microsoft Word values in two ways. Write to or extract from Word properties. And write 
to or extract from Word bookmarks.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn Scanner
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

To populate the list of Available Data, use the Scan command. The Scan command lets you add the names of 
template documents to a list. Select the Add command to add the name of a document to this list and 
Remove to take one off the list. When you are ready, click OK.

Adept then examines each document in the list, and finds the properties, attributes, and so on in the 
document or documents you listed in the scanner. This data then is listed in the right-column of the PlugIn 
dialog under the heading "Available Data." 

To link the available attributes, properties, or tags with the relevant data fields in Adept, first select the field 
on the left. Then from the list of available data in the right column, select the field you want to map and drag 
it into the middle column.

You can also right-click the property in the column labeled Available Data to manually add entries that cannot 
be scanned. 

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn Info
In the Help tab, select "PlugIns..." to gain access to information about each PlugIn. Simply select the PlugIn 
from this list and click the button labeled, "Info."

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn Editor Info
To allow non-Administrators to display PlugIn information, the PlugIn dialog is made available in a read-only 
basis from the Help tab. This displays the information from the PlugIn editor in a Read Only format for 
information purposes. To edit this information, select PlugIn Administration from the Admin tab.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 6 of 43

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn for Windows Images
The PlugIn for Windows Images manages thumbnail extraction from several document types to be used by 
Adept for Thumbnail display in the Data Card and the Document Dashboard.

The configuration dialog allows you to select the extensions of the documents which will be extracted by this 
PlugIn.

When you install this PlugIn Adept will automatically extract a "thumbnail" from any supported image 
document format that you check. Once the thumbnail has been stored in Adept, it will be displayed in the 
Data Card Thumbnail tab, in the Document Dashboard Thumbnail tab, and in other dialogs where thumbnails 
are displayed.

Realize that "thumbnails" can be quite large. To protect against excess storage requirements on your 
database server, set a maximum width and height.

Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 
Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn for PDF Extraction
When you load and enable this PlugIn, Adept will be able to extract Form Text Fields, Properties and 
Thumbnails from PDF documents. Select the Configure PlugIns command to open the Administration dialog. 
 The Administration dialog allows control of what is extracted under Options.

When checking the option to extract thumbnails, a dialog will be presented where you define the quality of 
the thumbnail. This setting impacts the size of the image stored in the database and the time needed to 
perform extraction. Setting this above 50% may cause excessive database size resulting in longer database 
backups and longer extraction time. It is recommended to set this to 40% or less.

The bottom portion of the dialog allows you to map the properties in the external documents with the 
extraction fields in Adept.

See PlugIn Scanner to populate the list of Available Data.

As with other PlugIns, you will need to set up Extraction Fields and map them to the properties.  Also see the 
PlugIn Overview and Options for more setup details.

Note: Only PDFs that are not secured can be extracted. Secure PDFs prevent the PlugIn from 
extracting any information successfully.

Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 
Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Navigation:  Plugins >

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 7 of 43

PlugIn for Properties
Note:  To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Word, Excel and other documents contain built in properties, such as Author and Subject. You can also create 
your own Custom Properties such as Client or Project. This PlugIn for Properties allows you to extract these 
values and enter them into Adept fields. In addition you can update the Properties.

Not all Windows documents store properties with the same format. With this PlugIn, Adept extracts 
properties that conform to the STG Open Storage standard. To find out if Adept will extract document 
properties from your document type, conduct an experiment with a small document that has known property 
values, or check with the manufacturer of the software that created the document in question. Examples of 
STG Open Storage Properties include: Microsoft Word, Excel, Publisher, and PowerPoint.

Note:  If you want support for documents from Microsoft Word or Microsoft Excel 2003 or 
greater, use the Word or Excel PlugIn. If you want support for XML documents, use 
the PlugIn for XML Properties.

Note:  Many Office documents now are stored in XML format and have an additional "x" on 
the file extension. Should the Properties PlugIn fail to work are desired and the file 
you are extracting has the "x" appended to the extension, you should try using the 
PlugIn for XML Properties.

Setup
To extract properties from supported documents, use the PlugIn for Properties. Open the Administer PlugIn 
dialog by selecting the Administer PlugIns command. Select Adept PlugIn for Properties from the list of 
PlugIns then click Edit to open the PlugIn Editor. Check Load on Startup then click OK to close the dialog and 
enable the PlugIn. Click OK to close the Administer PlugIns dialog and install the PlugIn. 

Select the Configure PlugIns command to open the Administration dialog for this PlugIn. You can add 
extensions of the documents from which you want Adept to extract properties by right-clicking in the 
Extensions pane. A small dialog appears that asks you if you want to add or delete an extension.

Note: If you add an extension that is not supported by the Open Storage format, the 
property extraction will fail. For example, Adobe Acrobat documents are not 
supported, and so, if you place "pdf" extension in this list, the PlugIn will generate 
error messages.

The bottom portion of the dialog allows you to map the properties in the external documents with the 
extraction fields in Adept.

See PlugIn Scanner to populate the list of Available Data.

As with other PlugIns, you will need to set up Extraction Fields and map them to the properties. 

See the PlugIn Overview and Options for more setup details.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 8 of 43

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn for XML Properties
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline Adept 

performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones you will not.

Use this PlugIn to extract properties from supported XML documents, such as docx and xlsx. This PlugIn works 
exactly like the PlugIn for Properties, enabling you to extract properties from the newer document formats 
and placing the values in Adept fields. 

Note:  Many Office documents now are stored in XML format and have an additional "x" on 
the file extension. Should the Properties PlugIn fail to work are desired and the file 
you are extracting has the "x" appended to the extension, you should try using the 
PlugIn for XML Properties.

To set up the PlugIn:
1. Open the Administer PlugIn dialog by selecting the Administer PlugIns command
2. Select Adept PlugIn for Properties from the list of PlugIns 
3. Select the Edit button to open the PlugIn Editor
4. Check the option to Load on Startup
5. Select OK to close the PlugIn Editor dialog and enable the PlugIn. 
6. Click OK to close the Administer PlugIns dialog and install the PlugIn. 

Select the Configure PlugIns command to open the Administration dialog for this PlugIn.

The top portion of this dialog allows you to select extensions that are affected by the PlugIn, and also allows 
you to select the types of data to be extracted as well as to enable the Update Document feature. Update 
Document allows Adept to write values to the document. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 9 of 43

The bottom portion of the dialog allows you to map the properties in the external documents with the 
extraction fields in Adept.

See PlugIn Scanner to populate the list of Available Data.

As with other PlugIns, you will need to set up Extraction Fields and map them to the properties. 
See the PlugIn Overview and Options for more setup details.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn for Microsoft Word
Note:  To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Use the PlugIn for Microsoft Word to read or write properties, Form Fields, and Content Controls to Word 
2003 or above. To use this PlugIn you must also have Microsoft Word installed on your workstation.

Note: The PlugIn for Microsoft Word cannot Extract properties from MS Word versions 
previous to 2003. To do so, you need to load and configure the Adept PlugIn for 
Properties.

Note: To write (Update) properties to Word 2003 or greater install the Word PlugIn. Adept 
cannot update properties or form fields in MS Office documents older than Office 
2003.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 10 of 43

Note: If you are using Microsoft Office 2010 or higher, you may need to unblock older 
versions of Microsoft Word. To check or change File Blocking settings in Microsoft 
Office, click the File Menu, then click Options. On the left side, click Trust Center, and 
in that dialog click File Block Settings. Unblock the versions of Word that you need to 
synchronize.

Feature description
Word documents contain some built in properties, such as Author and Subject. You can also create your own 
Custom Properties such as Client or Project. Word properties can be linked to form fields or Content Control 
fields inside Word.
When you Synchronize or Check In Microsoft Office documents, 2003 or greater, Adept checks to see if any 
properties match Extraction fields in your database. If there is a match between your Extraction fields and the 
Properties, Form Fields, and Content Control fields in the document, Adept copies the value out of the 
document into the database.

An effective way to use these properties is for your administrator to create template documents that contain 
predefined custom properties. When you create a new document with the Document New command, Adept 
creates a copy of the template. You can then add values to the properties in the document. When you check 
in the document, Adept will then automatically copy the values into the database.

Set Up
To set up the PlugIn, open the Administrator PlugIn dialog by selecting the Administer PlugIns command. 
Select Adept PlugIn for Word from the list of PlugIns then click Edit to open the PlugIn Editor. Check Load on 
Startup then click OK to close the dialog and enable the PlugIn. Click OK to close the Administer PlugIns dialog 
and install the PlugIn. 

Select the Configure PlugIns command to open the Administration dialog for this PlugIn. Check the Extensions 
and Options as appropriate. When you have this PlugIn installed, you can set up your Extraction fields in 
Adept to link to Properties, Form Fields, and Content Controls in Word. Then, as with other Extraction fields, 
you can write (update) values from Adept to the Word document, or read values from the Word document to 
Adept.

Note:  It is recommended that you map to the form field or the Content Control field instead of the custom 
property. Mapping to the custom property and performing an Update Document will break any link that the 
custom property might have to a form field or Content Control field.

See PlugIn Scanner to populate the list of Available Data.

As with other PlugIns, you will need to set up Extraction Fields and map them to the properties. Also see the 
PlugIn Overview and Options for more setup details.

Navigation:  Plugins >

PlugIn for Microsoft Excel
Note:  To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns.  To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 11 of 43

Excel documents contain some built in properties, such as Author and Subject. Use the PlugIn for Microsoft 
Excel to read or write properties. You can also create your own Custom Properties such as Client or Project. 
Excel properties can be linked to Locations or Named Locations inside Excel.

Note: To read (Extract) properties from MS Excel previous to 2003, you need to load and 
configure the PlugIn for Properties.

Note: The PlugIn for Microsoft Excel requires that you install a copy of Microsoft Office on 
your workstation. If you are using Microsoft Office 2010 or higher, you may need to 
unblock older versions of Microsoft Excel. To check or change File Blocking settings in 
Microsoft Office, click the File Menu, then click Options. On the left side, click Trust 
Center, and in that dialog click File Block Settings. Unblock the versions of Excel that 
you need to synchronize.

When you Synchronize or Check In documents created by Microsoft Excel, 2003 or greater, Adept checks to 
see if any properties match Extraction fields in your database. If there is a match between your Extraction 
fields and the Properties or Locations or Named Locations in the document, Adept copies the value out of the 
document into the database.

An effective way to use these properties is for your administrator to create template documents that contain 
predefined custom properties. When you create a new document with the New command, Adept creates a 
copy of the template. You can then add values to the properties in the document. When you check in the 
document, Adept will then automatically copy the values into the database.

Export to Excel
In addition to importing from Excel, after you have installed the Excel PlugIn, you can export metadata from 
Adept into an Excel spreadsheet. First select the documents from any Adept window. Then select the Export 
to Excel command on the Collaborate tab of the ribbon. Using the dialog box in this PlugIn, you can specify 
which headers and fields are placed in the output document.

Note:  This PlugIn always exports the date in the format that is set in the Windows options 
of the Workstation where the program is running, and does not use the date format 
specified for Adept.

Header
You can choose the headings first by right-clicking and selecting Show Main or Show All. This controls how 
many fields you can choose from. Then from the list, select the Headers you want included in the document. 
These will be saved into the Excel document.

For typical exports, you will usually only add the Display Name. This will provide a single row of headers that 
contains the display name at the top of each column. This is the format expected by users when exporting to 
Excel. Then if you choose to import this Excel document back into Adept, using the Data Import feature, 
Adept will interpret the headers.

The other header options will have value for programmers, data analysts, or for interpretation by computer 
programming in custom programs. Aliases refer to the fact that some values in the Adept Tables are 
references to fields in other tables. The Alias Table is the name of the table. You can select "Yes" or "No" for 
"Using Alias."  "Yes" if you want to export the value contained in the alias, and "No" if you want to export the 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 12 of 43

number that is used for the link. You could include of each, one aliased and one not, to see both aspects of 
the data.

Select Fields
To decide which fields are exported, you may drag and drop fields from the left side into the right side. You 
can control the list that is displayed in this panel by right-clicking, and selecting Show All, Show Only System 
Fields, or Show Only User Fields.

To add fields from this list into the Export list on the right, select Add from this right-click menu. When you 
Add fields, they are displayed in the Report list on the right side of the dialog.

To remove fields from this list, you can right-click and select Remove. Fields in the right side can be dragged 
up and down to reorder the output You can also use the right-click menu to control Aliases.

Save Settings
You can optionally save an output setting document by selecting Save As from the File menu. By default this 
document is saved to your AdeptSupport folder. This document can be reused by using the Open command in 
the File menu.

Click Export to Execute
Once you have selected the fields, and click Export, this command works on the selected records in any Adept 
window. All selected records will be output into an Excel worksheet and immediately opened in Excel. From 
Excel the user may save the document or close without saving.

This feature will be used for generating extensive reports on documents and related information in Adept. It 
differs from the "Save List as Text" export option because "Export to Excel" only outputs the selected records, 
provides optional headings, and is not limited by the number of fields that can be displayed in an Adept 
window (currently limited to 24). "Export to Excel" also exports directly into an Excel document rather than to 
a tab-delimited text document.

Setup
Open the Administrator PlugIn dialog by selecting the Administer PlugIns command on the System tab of the 
ribbon. Select Adept PlugIn for Excel from the list of PlugIns then click Edit to open the PlugIn Editor. Check 
Load on Startup then click OK to close the dialog and enable the PlugIn. Click OK to close the Administer 
PlugIns dialog and install the PlugIn. 

Select the Configure PlugIns command to open the Administration dialog for this PlugIn. Check the Extensions 
and Options as appropriate. When you have this PlugIn installed, you can set up your Extraction fields in 
Adept to link to Properties or Named Locations or Locations in Excel. Then, as with other Extraction fields, you 
can write values from Adept to the Excel document, or read values from the Excel document to Adept.

See PlugIn Scanner to populate the list of Available Data.

As with other PlugIns, you will need to set up Extraction Fields and map them to the properties. 
See the PlugIn Overview and Options for more setup details.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Group Email Notification - Configure PlugIn 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 13 of 43

Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 
Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using and disable ones 
you will not.

The Group Email PlugIn gives the user control over the content of the email and the people who will receive 
it, allowing you to specify email recipients using Adept groups or individual users. The email notification may 
simply contain a link to a document or may contain attached documents.

Open the Administrator PlugIn dialog by selecting the Administer PlugIns command. Select Adept PlugIn for 
Group Email Notification from the list of PlugIns then click Edit to open the PlugIn Editor. Check “Load on 
Startup” then click OK to close the dialog and enable the PlugIn. Click OK to close the Administer PlugIns 
dialog and install the PlugIn. 

Select the Configure PlugIns command to open the Administration dialog for this PlugIn. Check the General 
and Settings tabs as appropriate. When you have this PlugIn installed, you can set up Extraction fields in 
Adept to link to Properties.

On the General tab, the Adept Administrator can set the options to determine which groups of users will 
activate this PlugIn. 

Enable Group Email Notification for all Adept Users
This setting includes all users in the Adept system.

Enable Group Email Notification for Adept Groups
This setting restricts notification to members of selected groups. 

Note: At least one group must be selected.

Disable Standard Adept "Send To" Command
The checkbox disables the standard Send To command on the Collaborate tab of the ribbon.

The Settings tab lists the Available Options, where the Adept Administrator can choose to activate any 
combination of the Format options on the user's dialog. In the Default Option section, the Adept 
Administrator chooses the default action when a user initiates the PlugIn. The bottom option allows the 
Adept Administrator to define what Adept command will activate the PlugIn.

Once the configuration is completed, select the OK button to save the changes and exit the dialog box. 
Selecting the Cancel button will cancel any changes made since the last save.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Group Email Operation
All users for whom this PlugIn is enabled will be able to engage it at any time, by using a Group Email pick 
from the Collaborate ribbon. This option will initiate the Group Email dialog and the user may send an email 
without having to Approve, Assign, or Check In.

This PlugIn intercepts Check In, Assign or Approve Adept and prompts the user with a dialog box.

Group Name
Checking an available Group, all members of that Group will receive an email. Individual members may be 
unchecked.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 14 of 43

User Name
Clicking the + next to Group will show all members of that Group. You can select only the users you want to 
receive the email.

Only the users who have valid email addresses defined in their Adept user account will be able to receive 
email notification. 

Check the Documents(s) to Include
This section will list all the documents that were selected in one of the Adept windows before selecting Group 
Email. You can still uncheck any document(s) you don’t want to include.

Format
Select an available method for sending the selected documents.

The Send button will not be enabled until users are identified for receiving the email and there are entries in 
both the Subject and Message areas.

After successful execution, a confirmation message will be displayed to the user.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Outlook to Adept Add-in
To export email from Microsoft Outlook into Adept, install Adept’s “Outlook to Adept" Add-in into Outlook. 
This Add-in will allow you to optionally export any attachment(s) to an email and save these into Adept, as 
well. Adept will maintain a relationship between the imported email and its associated imported 
attachments. Adept’s Document Dashboard will then display the attachments as children to the saved email. 
Once they are safely saved in Adept, you can then delete them from Microsoft Outlook. 

Now instead of depending on Microsoft Outlook to track emails, you can centralize them and make them 
available in a common, controlled location. With Adept’s search capabilities, emails will become easier to 
manage and find.

Note: This Add-in does not support Lotus Notes or Outlook Express.

Installation
To install the Outlook to Adept Add-in, run AP_OutlooktoAdept.msi, located in the folder Program 
Files\Synergis\Adept10\Client\Install. This will install the Adept menu in Outlook. 

Operation:
In Microsoft Outlook, select an email and then click the “Save to Adept” button.

If necessary, Adept changes special characters in the filename to underscores. Before saving, the user can also 
manually edit the name.  The body of the email is saved in Adept in the format users select from the 
dropdown list (msg, rtf, html or plain text). 

Note: Outlook messages saved in HTML format cannot be viewed  by the  Adept Viewer.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 15 of 43

The user must select the Adept Library where the email is to be saved.  The bottom section of the dialog lists 
the attachments to the email. Edit the name of attachments by double clicking on them. The Include 
checkbox instructs Adept to include the attachment(s) to this email. If you uncheck this, the Add-in will skip 
the attachment(s) and not save them.  The child checkbox determines if Adept should build a relationship 
between the attachment(s) and the email.

Upon clicking OK, the documents are checked in and are displayed in an Adept Search Results. You can use 
the search results at this time to add data to the Data Cards individually or with Batch Update.  If there is a 
workflow associated with the selected library, the new document(s) will have to pass through it.

If the name is duplicated, the Add-in traps it and asks you to change the document name.  If multiple emails 
are selected the program would loop around again to do the second email then loop around to do the third 
email.  

When all the information for the document is in Adept the user can then switch back to Outlook and manually 
delete or archive the email(s) because they are now being safely stored and tracked in Adept.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Microsoft Outlook PlugIn
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Overview
The Outlook PlugIn can be used in conjunction with the “Outlook to Adept” Add-in. Emails and their 
attachments can be saved from Outlook to Adept. When the email is saved as a record in Adept, properties 
from the emails such as To, From, and Subject can be automatically inserted into Adept extraction fields using 
the Outlook PlugIn.

Note: To learn more about the Outlook to Adept Add-in see the Help Topic of that name.

Properties that can be extracted from an Outlook Email
Billing Info
CC
Categories
Companies
Creation Time Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Creation Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Deferred Delivery Time Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Deferred Delivery Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Flag Due By Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Flag Due By Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Flag Request
Last Modified Time Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Last Modified Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Received By
Received on Behalf of 

Name

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 16 of 43

Received Time Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Received Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Reply Recipient Names
Sender email address
Sender SMTP email 

address
Sender Name
Sent On Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Sent On Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Sent on Behalf of
Subject
To
Task Completed Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Task Completed Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Task Start Date and Time - to be mapped to Adept Character Fields only
Task Start Date Date only portion of above - can be mapped to Adept Date fields
Task Subject

Note: In the CC and To fields only the displayed name is found and not necessarily the 
expanded email address.  

Note: This PlugIn cannot extract BCC.
Note: This PlugIn cannot use the Update Document feature to push values from Adept back 

to the Outlook Email.
Note: All of the Date/Time type of properties offer two different ways to access them, one 

with just the date and the other with the date and time. These can only be mapped to 
a character field.

Note: When a field is mapped to an Adept field the string will get truncated if the Adept field 
is not large enough to capture the entire value.

Configure: 
To configure this PlugIn, you will need to map Outlook Email Properties to Adept Extraction Fields. First select 
the Configure PlugIns command…

The resulting dialog displays a list of all the Adept Extraction Fields in the left column, and a list of all the 
Microsoft Outlook Email Property Fields in the right column. 

To map an Extraction field to an Outlook property, select the Extraction field from the column on the left. The 
name of the Extraction field will be displayed above the middle column. Now review the Email Properties in 
the column on the right. Drag one or more properties from this list and drop it on to the middle column.

When you are finished mapping properties, click OK.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Approval Authentication

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 17 of 43

Overview and Operation
When loaded and enabled by a System Administrator, invoking the commands listed below will display a 
password entry dialog box prior to displaying the typical dialog.

· Approve
· Reject
· Expedite Approve
· Reject To
· Expedite Reject
· Final Approve
· Create Version (Available only in Adept Desktop)
· Delete Version

If the user has selected more than one document before invoking the command, the password entry will 
apply to all selected documents when the command was invoked.
The password dialog box displays the Username of the user currently logged in as a read-only text box and 
prompts for that user’s password. If the password is correctly entered then the command will continue. If the 
user enters an incorrect password then the dialog will appear again with a message stating “You have entered 
an invalid password.” This dialog will allow for three attempts to enter the correct password. After the third 
incorrect entry, a warning message appears stating "You have entered 3 invalid password attempts.  Your 
Adept command has been canceled".  After closing this message, the user will not be permitted to invoke any 
workflow commands untill they log out and log in again.  Active Directory user accounts may become locked 
out by the domain after numerous failed attempts; contact your network administrator for further details. 
Canceling the dialog box will return the user to Adept, but will not retain any document selections.
A password must be entered whether Adept is configured for Adept or Windows Domain authentication. The 
Windows Domain account password will be required when using Active Directory accounts. In environments 
where SSO is configured, users must enter their Adept password. Windows passwords are case-sensitive; 
Adept passwords are not case-sensitive.
Configuration
This functionality is enabled by default when the Approval Authentication PlugIn is first loaded. The 
configuration applies globally to all users and all workflows. When this Plugin is loaded and turned on, all 
users must enter their password when any of the above workflow commands are issued. If this PlugIn is 
disabled or not Loaded on Startup, no users will be prompted to enter a password when invoking the above 
workflow commands.
Please note that in environments where SSO is configured, each user account that may use the Desktop client 
must have the value “Adept” populated in the Active Directory Domain field of the user profile.
Navigation:  Plugins >

AutoName Overview and Installation
The AutoName PlugIn will automatically generate names for new documents. Each predefined name format 
consists of one or more segments, in any order, that together create a document name to satisfy a variety of 
standard requirements. The segments can be based on user interaction, automatic increments, and fixed 
elements. 

In addition, you can create a link between the segment value and an Adept field. When you do so, the value 
of that segment is automatically written into the field. This is useful because after AutoNaming a document, 
you will be able to search the database for that value or sort a column based on it.

After the AutoName PlugIn is installed and configured by the Administrator, users can initiate it by selecting 
the AutoName button in the Adept New document, Rename, and Copy dialogs.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 18 of 43

Note: Extreme caution must be used when making edits to restricted lists due to the ability for Adept to 
include these in the configuration of AutoName. It is the responsibility of the person making edits to 
ensure that those edits do not create incompatibilities with the usage of AutoName.

Definitions
Format – A format is the rule you create for building up a document name. The format consists of a list of 
segments. When you select a format, it will be used to generate the names of new documents.

Segment – the PlugIn generates a document name by stringing together a sequence of segments. There are 6 
types of segments. These can be strung together in any order.

To load the PlugIn, select the Administer PlugIns command on the System tab of the ribbon menu and locate 
Adept PlugIn for AutoName. For details, see the topic Administer PlugIns.

Next Topic: AutoName: Create/Delete Formats

Navigation:  Plugins >

AutoName Create/Delete Formats
To configure the PlugIn, select the Configure PlugIns command. You must be an Adept Administrator to 
access this command.
· Click OK to save changes
· Click Cancel to close and dismiss changes

Note:  You can sort the list of formats in ascending or descending alphabetical order by 
right-clicking on the list. From the context sensitive menu, select a sort-order option. 
This order defines the order users will see in the dialog when using the AutoName 
feature.

To Create a New Format
Click “New” to create a new document naming rule. The first thing to enter is the name. Allowable names can 
include alpha-numeric characters, excluding special and invalid characters as defined in the Adept help 
document “Gatekeeper: Verify Name”. The name can be up to 32 characters long. 

Enter a name and click OK or Cancel. When you click OK, you are taken to the Edit AutoName Format dialog 
where you can add segments. You must have an AutoGenerated segment before you can click OK to complete 
your AutoName format unless you have checked the option "Allow Format Without AutoGenerated 
Segment". 

Edit or Delete
The Edit and Delete buttons become active when an existing format is selected in the list of formats. To edit 
or delete an existing format, select the format and click the appropriate button.

Disable/Enable
You can select a Format and click the Disable button. A Disabled AutoName Format will not be available to 
users. You can enable it by selecting it and clicking the Enable button.

Next Topic: AutoName: Edit Format

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 19 of 43

Navigation:  Plugins >

AutoName Edit Format
To edit the Format, select the format name, and then click the Edit button. A dialog box shows the current 
definition for the selected format.

A completed AutoName format consists of a series of segments. You can see the entire AutoName the way it 
will be generated and also edit each individual segment.

Below the 'Max. Name Length' display is a drop down used to associate the final document name, minus any 
extension, to an Adept database field.

Note:  Within AutoName and most of the segments is the ability to associate the segment to 
an Adept data field. Adept data fields are populated by the AutoFormat information. 
Any existing data in an Adept data field will be overwritten. Adept data field content 
is never used as input to an AutoName format segment.

The top of the dialog displays the format name, a preview of what the completed name will look like, and its 
length in number of characters. The dialog lists all the segments that comprise the format. In this dialog, the 
Adept Administrator can add a new segment, edit an existing segment, delete an existing segment, and move 
up or down the definition segments relative to each other. 

Every AutoName Format must include an AutoGenerated segment. The OK button is not activated until the 
format contains such a segment or the option is checked for "Allow Format Without AutoGenerated 
Segment".

By enabling the Force to Uppercase option, the entire document name will be forced to uppercase when the 
user executes the AutoName PlugIn.

Next Topic: AutoName Create/Edit Segments

Navigation:  Plugins >

AutoName Create/Edit Segments
When you select an existing AutoName Format, you can add new segments or edit existing ones. 

Following is a description of the six segment types. All of these tabs include a Name field, and some include a 
place to add an Associated Adept field.

Name
Give each segment a name. The name will help you keep track of the segments so you can sequence them 
together in the desired order.

Associated with an Adept data field
Some segments can be associated with an Adept field. When you select an Associated Data Field, the data 
you enter into the segment will be copied into the Adept field when you create a new document. 

Note: To ensure control over Restricted Value fields, it is not advisable to associate a Free 
Text segment with a Restricted Value field. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 20 of 43

Note: Although Adept permits associating segment values with fields defined as Restricted, 
Required, and Related, resulting behavior can be unpredictable. It is the responsibility 
of the administrator to ensure that those associations do not create incompatibilities 
with the usage of AutoName.

To relate this segment to an Adept field, select a field from the dropdown list. If you associate this segment to 
a numerical Adept field, you cannot type alphabetic characters into the segment. When you select the 
associated Adept field name from the dropdown list, if the Segment Name is blank, the Adept field name is 
copied into the name to be used as a default for the segment name. You can always edit the Segment Name 
field to suit your needs. 

AutoGenerated Sequence Tab
The AutoGenerated definition segment automatically generates a number by incrementing the previous 
value. The AutoGenerated Sequence is recommended. You can not complete or save an AutoName format 
without at least one AutoGenerated Sequence unless you have checked the option "Allow Format Without 
AutoGenerated Segment.

Associated Data Field: When you select a field here, AutoName will write the calculated value for this 
segment into the associated field. So if AutoName generates 372, that value will be entered into the segment, 
as well as written to the data field, in this example, Drawing Number.

Note: If using AutoName and creating a new document "Out from Library", any associated 
data fields populated by AutoName will be on the resulting Out document's Data Card 
only. The In or Hold document's Data Card will not have its data fields populated.

Length indicates the total number of characters allocated to this segment. If the “Zero-pad” option is enabled, 
this segment will automatically insert leading 0’s in front of the generated number. If this option is not 
enabled, the number will only take up as many places as are needed.

Range: Insert the minimum and maximum. The first time a number is generated, it will add the step size to 
the minimum except if the minimum is zero.. For example, if the minimum is 0 and the step size is 1, the first 
document will use 0. If the minimum is 1 and the step size is 1, the first document will use 2. Every 
subsequent number will add the step size. If the generated number exceeds the maximum value of the range, 
an error will result, and you will need to see your Adept Administrator.

Step size: This is the number that will be added to the previous number to arrive at the new number. The 
default size for the Step is 1. 

Note: When using a step size other than 1, the resulting values generated may be different 
from what is desired or expected. You should test your AutoName format to ensure 
the resulting filenames are as desired and making adjustment in the AutoName 
format as needed. 

Zero Pad: When you enable this option, the auto-generated number will be padded with leading 0s so the 
length of the string is always the maximum length allocated for the segment. So for example, if AutoName 
generates the number 372, and Zero Pad is checked, then the value 0372 will be used for the segment.

Delimiter Tab
The delimiter definition segment requires that you give the segment a name. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 21 of 43

In addition, you must enter the delimiter character. 

The delimiter is limited to a single character such as underscore or hyphen, and must not include any of 
Microsoft Windows invalid characters (/ \ : * ? “ < > |). Adept will reject any invalid or special characters.

Fixed Text Tab
A Fixed Text segment consists of a string of characters that you set during configuration. When the user 
creates a new document, this string is inserted into the document name.

The input is limited to alpha-numeric characters and is validated against Microsoft Windows invalid 
characters (/ \  :* ? “ < > |) and Adept’s known list of invalid or special characters. 

Free Text Tab
A Free Text segment lets the user type in any text when creating the new document. The input is limited to 
alpha-numeric characters and is validated against Microsoft Windows invalid characters (/ \ : * ? “ < > |) and 
Adept’s known list of invalid or special characters. 

Maximum Length
A maximum length must be defined for the free text input. If the “Max Length Required” option is enabled, 
the user must use all the available characters based on the maximum length. The maximum length for any 
Free Text segment entry is 32 characters.

Note: Due to a restriction when storing the default value, a maximum of 31 characters will 
be stored. When using the AutoName format's Free Text segment to create a new 
document, the full 32 characters can be entered.

Defined List Tab
The defined list definitions segment will allow the administrator to type in a list of values in a dialog box.

This segment lets the user select a word from a defined list. It is like the Restricted Segment, with the 
difference that a Defined List is created by the Administrators when configuring AutoName, while the 
Restricted List is created in Adept and is available for other Data Cards.

When the new document is being created, the user will be able to select one of the text items from this list, 
and that item will be inserted into this segment.

Note: Any value in this list may exceed the maximum value that can be stored in the 
associated data field. In that case, the stored value will be truncated in the associated 
data field.

Restricted List Tab
The restricted list allow users to pick a value from a list that has been defined in one of Adept’s Restricted List 
fields. When you associate this segment with an Adept Restricted Field, the values from that Field are 
displayed. Select one as a default value. Select one of these to set the terms

Next Topic: AutoName Operation
Navigation:  Plugins >

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 22 of 43

AutoName Operation
Accessing any AutoName format is accomplished by creating a New document or using the Copy or Rename 
commands. Selecting the New command opens the Create New Documents & Records dialog where you have 
the option to click the AutoName button. In the Copy and Rename dialogs, the AutoName button is available 
to assist in providing a new name for the selected file. If you click this button, the AutoName dialog will 
appear and allow you to automatically generate the name, which will then be inserted back into the 
New/Copy/Rename document’s name. The actual appearance of segments will vary depending on how the 
Administrator set up this AutoName format.

Note: although you may select documents in the list when copying and renaming, the 
AutoName selection will be applied to all documents in the list regardless of selection.

Note: If a configured AutoName format is not displayed in the list, please notify your Adept 
administrator. They must open the AutoName configuration dialog and select OK to 
migrate and re-save all formats.

At the top of the dialog box is a representation of the document name with default values in places that 
require user input. The user must now complete any required segments that require typing in free form text 
or selecting from a drop down list. Once all the necessary information has been entered, the OK button will 
become active. Selecting the OK button will complete the command.

At any time, the user may select the Cancel button and the dialog box will be dismissed without any changes. 

If you check the option to create a series of documents, only the numeric portion of the document name will 
be incremented. All other aspects of the document name, including any free text or restricted list text, will be 
used for all created documents.

When the AutoName document name is generated, the segment values are saved to the Adept Fields you 
have associated with the segment. If any of these fields are Extraction fields, then the value saved into the 
Adept Field will also be written out to the associated document. This will be done while still in the user work 
area so that Update Document permissions are not required. This will permit the population of the Adept 
Data Card data fields and mapped document attributes/properties via input to the AutoName PlugIn.

AutoName conditions: Multiuser
AutoName could be started by more than one user at the same time. The number displayed in the dialog is 
not committed to the database until the user selects OK. This creates the possibility that the number 
displayed in the preview will not be the same number as the number given to the actual document. 

For example, two users could have the same preview number but only one of them will actually get that 
number. Or if a user defines a series of numbers and a second user reserves a number, there is a chance that 
the second user may get a number in the middle of the first user's series. The first user’s series would skip 
that number. 

AutoName conditions: Maximum reached
When the auto-generated numeric sequence reaches the maximum of the range, the next time a user 
attempts to create a new document using this format, a message is provided, notifying the user to contact 
their Adept Administrator to extend the range of the name or to suggest using an alternative format. Picking 
OK to this message will temporarily remove the format from the available formats list in AutoName and the 
user can cancel the Create New Documents & Records dialog and notify their Adept Administrator or select a 
different format.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 23 of 43

Duplicate document names
Created document names are checked to be sure they are not duplicates within Adept. Should the generated 
document names contain one or more duplicate names, the user will be notified and given the option to 
continue with the generation of document names. In the case where one or more document names of a 
generated sequence are duplicate, the user will not be notified specifically of which names are duplicates.

Note: If using AutoName and creating a new document "Out from Library", any associated 
data fields populated by AutoName will be on the resulting Out document's Data Card 
only. The In or Hold document's Data Card will not have its data fields populated.

For more information see AutoName Overview and Installation

Navigation:  Plugins >

AutoRevision PlugIn
Overview:
This PlugIn allows the user to automatically increment a document’s field. You can set up the PlugIn so it 
operates on documents within particular Libraries and on documents with particular extensions. This feature 
supplements Adept’s built-in Versioning increment which automatically increases Adept’s built-in version 
number. You can set it up to increment alphabetically or numerically.

You can configure this AutoRevision feature to increment after the document is Checked In, Checked Out, 
Check Out from In, or Final Approve (returned to Library).

Installation:
This PlugIn is already installed. To Load it, select the Administer PlugIns command. For details, see the topic 
on Administer PlugIns.

Configuration:
Configuration of this PlugIn can be done by an administrator. The Configuration screen is found under the 
Configure PlugIns command

Libraries
The list displays all Libraries. The Libraries you select in this list will be operated on by the AutoRevision 
PlugIn. 

Note: You can only select Checked Libraries to be operated on by this PlugIn.

Increment AutoRevision on
Select the Adept operation that will trigger AutoRevision to increment the revision designator.
· Check In
· Check Out
· Check Out from In
· Final Approval

Select Field for AutoRevision

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 24 of 43

Select the Adept field where you want the AutoRevision number to be saved. You will select it from a 
dropdown list of available Adept fields. You can pick one field of either character or numeric type. A numeric 
field can only hold numeric designations, whereas a character field can hold either numeric or alpha.

Only character and numeric fields of the required size are available in the drop down list. Fields that are 
designated as protected, indexed, restricted list, or extracted can be used and will be available in the list. Care 
must be used when selecting a field that is a restricted list or an extracted field to ensure the revision scheme 
chosen matches the value desired. When selecting an extraction field, the PlugIn will include an Adept Update 
Document command which may result in the document's mapped attribute/property being updated.

Choose AutoRevisioning Scheme
Choose whether you want the revision value to be alphanumeric or numeric. 

Set to alphanumeric
A will increment to B, B will increment to C, etc.
1A will increment to 1B, 1B will increment to 1C, etc. 
A1 will increment to A2, A2 will increment to A3, etc.
When A9 is incremented it goes to B0, B0 increments to B1, etc.
After Z, the next Revision designation is AA. After AZ, the next designation is BA.

Note: I and O will be skipped.
Alphanumeric is limited to a maximum of 2 characters
The last increment will be either Z9, 9Z, or ZZ depending on the sequence used.
The Adept field used must be a character field with a width of at least 1. An Adept field larger than 2 can be 
used but the PlugIn will only use 2 characters.
An alpha character must be used. Trying to use only a number value such as 1 will be incremented to A.

Set to numeric
1 will increment to 2, 2 will increment to 3, etc.
11 will increment to 12, 12 will increment to 13, etc.
1A will increment to 2 because it does not recognize the alpha character.
When 99999 is incremented it goes back to 1.
Numeric is limited to a minimum of  5 characters.
The Adept field used can be a numeric field having a minimum width of 5. Any numeric field with a scale 
greater than 0 will not be available in the list.
The Adept field used can be a character field having at least 5 characters.

Note: If you switch this value, your previous Revision value will be reset to the beginning. So 
for example if your AutoRevisioning scheme is Alphanumeric and the revision letter 
for nozzle.dwg is “D,” if you change the AutoRevisioning Scheme to Numeric, the next 
Revision will be “1”.

Apply AutoRevision to
Select the extensions of documents that will be affected by this PlugIn. Pick one of these three methods. 
· All Document Extensions
· Document Extensions Listed
· Document Extensions NOT listed.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 25 of 43

Two of these methods require that you build up a list of extensions. To add extensions to the list, click the '+' 
button. To remove extensions, click the '–' button. 

Operation
After the AutoRevision PlugIn has been configured, no further action is required. A document from one of the 
designated Libraries, with one of the designated Extensions, will have the value in its specified revision field 
automatically incremented when the selected action has been performed.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Bill of Material Automation
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Definition
This PlugIn uses the part and assembly information from the Adept Document Dashboard to create a list in an 
Excel spreadsheet, including the count or quantity. This bill of material output is known as an "RB BOM". You 
can also use an existing SOLIDWORKS bill of material placed in a drawing or assembly document to create a 
bill of material in an Excel spreadsheet. This bill of material output is known as a "Document BOM" and is only 
available for SOLIDWORKS documents with a SOLIDWORKS bill of material (not an Excel-based bill of material) 
saved within the document.

Note: To use a SOLIDWORKS BOM, you must have either SOLIDWORKS or SOLIDWORKS 
Explorer installed on the workstation.

Initial Setup
If you were using Bill of Materials in Adept previous to Adept 8, when you upgrade to Adept 8.0 or higher, 
before using the Bill of Materials Automation PlugIn, you must re-extract all Inventor, SOLIDWORKS, and 
AutoCAD documents. This is because until Adept 8, Synergis Adept did not store the Count. A new Extract or 
Synchronize is necessary in order to allow Adept to populate the Count value.

Count or Quantity (RB BOM only)
The Count is based on the number of instances that have been inserted into the AutoCAD, SOLIDWORKS or 
Inventor document. This number can be modified by settings within the CAD application. 

· SOLIDWORKS
Parts or assemblies will not be counted if the Display State is Suppressed, or if the property is set to 
"Exclude from Bill of Materials" or if it is a Virtual Component. 

Known Issue:  When you edit any SOLIDWORKS Configuration you must also activate the 
others

When using Bill of Material Automation with SOLIDWORKS configurations, when you make a 
change to a SOLIDWORKS configuration that would alter the Bill of Material output 
(e.g.: add a part, suppress a part, etc.), you must activate every configuration in the 
document, even if you did not edit it. Failure to do so will result in inaccurate 
quantities in the output.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 26 of 43

· Inventor
Parts or assemblies will not be counted if they have a state of Reference or Phantom or if it is a Virtual 
Component.

· AutoCAD
If a document is Xref'd, Count will indicate the number of times it is inserted. Overlays and underlays are 
always "1."
You can view the Count in the Adept Document Dashboard by clicking the Drawing Info tab. You cannot 
see the Count on any Adept Data Card or Column, other than on the Drawing Info tab. 

Operation
To access this command, select a document and then select Bill of Material from the Collaborate tab. This 
command acts on the currently selected document. The document may be selected in any Adept window. If 
your selection contains multiple documents or no documents a message is displayed: 

You can only create Bill of Material output when you have rights to all children (RB BOM only)
To create a Bill of Material, you must have the appropriate Library Access Rights that entitle you to at least 
view all the children of the parent. If you do not have sufficient rights, you will see an error message. In no 
circumstances will you be able to obtain more information than you are allowed to obtain when using the 
Document Dashboard or the Adept Data Card.

Select BOM Type
If you have selected a valid document, a dialog will present options for you to specify the source and type of 
bill of material.

If selecting any document other than a SOLIDWORKS document, your only option will be to create the bill of 
material using Adept relationships. If you have selected a SOLIDWORKS assembly or drawing document, you 
will have the option to use the Adept relationships and the two additional options specific for SOLIDWORKS. 
Select the option you desire and select OK.

Step 1: Configure Creation when Using Adept Relationships
After you run the Bill of Material Automation PlugIn, a wizard will present options that control the formatting 
of the output document. 

Set Columns
In the grid on the Wizard, define the columns that will appear on the report. If you want to include the count 
in your report, you must add a count (or quantity) column in this wizard. You may define the exported 
columns in three different ways. 

· One by one, right-click on each column heading and from the drop-down list, select an Adept field to use 
for this column and then go onto Column B, C, etc. and do the same thing.  
As you add fields, Row 1 (the column header) will display the Adept Display name for each field. Once a 
column is added, the Insert Column and Remove Column selections will also become available on these 
configured columns.  Inserting a column adds a new column before the one you are on.  Removing a 
column deletes this configured column.  

Note: Column headings are editable, so if the Adept Data Field Display name is not what you 
want to see in the exported data, you may edit the text before you export.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 27 of 43

· Choose an already designed column set.  This is also available from the right-click menu.

· At the bottom of the dialog under the Restore Settings section,  select the option to Use Previous 
Settings.   
This option allows you to browse out to an XML document that contains settings that were saved from a 
previous session of the Bill of Materials Automation PlugIn.  This XML document sets all options and can 
be created by first manually setting up the dialog once and then saving the XML document.  (The Save 
option is located on Step 2 of this Wizard.) 

Suppress Children with Zero Quantity
If the count is zero, this option removes the item from the Bill of Materials. 

Display only 1st Level children
In the Children section of the dialog, the user may specify if only the first level children of the selected parent 
are included in the output, or if the entire children multi-generational structure is included. There is no option 
to include only a certain number of children levels. It must be either first only or all levels.

Suppress Document Extensions
Choose this option to turn off the display of document extensions in the list and in the exported spreadsheet.

Indent Children
The Indent Children option controls whether the output is indented based on children level or held at the 
same indentation as the parent.  If the Indent Children option is not enabled, all rows of information will be 
left justified.

If Indent Children is enabled, the Document Dashboard Export would output into Column A but children 
records will be indented based on their position in the hierarchy.

Information Source
This option allows you to select which information you want to export: 

· When "Work in Progress" is selected, then the most current version of the children (regardless if they are 
approved or not) will be shown in the exported spreadsheet. 

· When "Library" is selected then the latest approved version of the children will be exported.

Export Format
Select one of the Export Formats: Excel, Text (Comma delimited), and XML.

Restore Settings
This option allows you to browse out to a pre-configured XML document to import column and other settings 
you saved from a previous Bill of Material Automation session. Creating these documents is explained later in 
this document.

Step 1: Configure Creation when Using SOLIDWORKS Configurations
If you selected the option to use SOLIDWORKS configurations, the dialog presented has and additional option 
for selection of one or all configurations to be output. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 28 of 43

By selecting a specific configuration, the output will include bill of material information based on that 
configuration. Other than the specification of a configuration, all other options in this dialog are the same as 
the previous section.

Step 2: Configure Output Settings
Clicking on the Next button brings you to Step 2 of the Bill of Material Automation Wizard.

Create Relationship of Spreadsheet to Selected Document
This option allows you to set the relationship of the exported XLS spreadsheet document. It can either 
stand alone with no relationships, or can be made part of a relationship with the document it is reporting 
on.  Choose Parent to make the  spreadsheet the parent of the selected document, or choose Child to 
make the  spreadsheet the child of the selected document.

If you create a relationship, you can set the type of relationship to Float, Fixed, or Dock. At first, the 
option will be set to the current default. You can change it manually.

Spreadsheet Formatting Options
The spreadsheet options let you set basic formatting on the Excel spreadsheet.  

Grouping
Activate Excel Grouping to group all the 1st level only children.    

Center Cell Data
This option sets up the alignment in all cells in the Excel spreadsheet to be center justified.  
If you choose the "Indent" option (available on page 1), then Column A will not be center justified but will 
remain at left justified so the Indent works.  

AutoFit Columns 
will automatically fit the column width to the size of the maximum data that is being placed into this 
field.  

Underline and Bold Column headers will underline and bold the Adept display names used as the column 
headers.  
Worksheet Name must be filled in and will name the tab for sheet 1. The default will always be the name 
of the selected document minus the extension.

Spreadsheet Name
Supply a name for the spreadsheet. The default will always be the name of the selected document with 
an XLS extension.

Location
Select an Adept Work Area where this Excel document will be saved.  

Save Current Settings
Once the user sets configuration options and column headings to be used for output, the user may save 
this configuration in a document that can be re-used at a later time. The output format will be an XML 
compatible document.  This XML document can be distributed across your organization so that all users 
can export in the same fashion.  The XML document you save in this step can be imported later to 
reproduce the same Export definition.  To locate the document, use the browse button. (…)

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 29 of 43

Finishing the Output
By selecting Finish, the output will be generated as specified and a message will be displayed

Step 1: Configure Creation when Extract from SOLIDWORKS
If you selected the option to extract from SOLIDWORKS, the dialog presented allows the user to select the 
SOLIDWORKS bill of material or revision listing to export or print. 

Data Source
This option allows you to select the source of data for exporting or printing. Once selecting the 
appropriate radio button, the drop down will list each SOLIDWORKS bill or material or revision list 
contained in the document. If nothing appears in the drop down list, then there is no item in the 
document for export or printing. Once a bill of material or revision listing is selected, the grid will be 
populated with the information from the item in the document. An checkbox is available to 
include/exclude user information in the output header.

Export/Print
Selecting Export/Print opens a preview dialog where you can define many options via the toolbar for the 
output you desire.

All options in this dialog are part of the programming toolkit used by this program. You can save your 
settings so that you can easily apply them to any future output\; print your output, or export your output 
to a multitude of formats. The output document can be saved to any folder and you can create a 
relationship between the output document and the source document if so desired.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Children Check Out PlugIn - Operation
Select documents from the Adept FileGuide or Search Results.  Then select Check Out. When the Children 
Check Out PlugIn is enabled, the Children Check Out dialog appears.
When Children Check Out is not enabled, you will see the default Check Out dialog, which does not offer the 
option to check out children.

Children Check Out  displays the Library Name, the Adept Status, and options that allow you to either Check 
Out or Copy the selected documents and their children. You can check either Check Out or Copy but not both. 
If you choose Copy, you can enter a value into Rename.

Note: You must type the entire name, including the extension.

The new name will take effect when you execute the command. 

Important Note:  If a child of one of the selected documents is also included in the selection 
set, it will appear in the tree at the root level since it is a selected document. You will 
not be able to select the instance that is a child, because you will control the instance 
that is at the root level.

Documents to Display
The documents initially selected in Adept when you choose Check Out, will be displayed in the Check Out 
dialog. The three options under the Documents to Display group may modify this list.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 30 of 43

Note:  If a document is not listed, you cannot act on it. You can only copy or check out 
documents displayed in this list.

Children

None
When this option is enabled, the display includes only the documents you selected.

First Level
When this option is enabled, the display includes the documents you selected and all of their first level 
children

All
When this option is enabled, the display includes the documents you selected and all generations of their 
children

Parents
In some cases you might want to display the parents of selected documents.  This is useful when you want to 
check out drawings (parents) associated with parts and assemblies (children).  When you indicate a document 
extension under the Parents option, this command will display parents with the specified extension. 

The gray text in the background is there to show the format of the extensions.  If you add more than one 
extension, separate them with semi-colons. You must precede each extension with a period.  For example: 
  .DWG;.IDW

After you enter an extension in this field, click the refresh button to the right of the Parents field to refresh 
the display to include parents.

Exclude
Note: You can only check out documents that are displayed in the tree. By excluding them 

from the list, you are removing them from the check out or copy out operation. 

Filtered
When this option is enabled, the Children Check Out dialog will no longer display children located in filtered 
Libraries. See the Library Profile for more information about Filtering. When you check or uncheck the 
Exclude Filter option, Adept must repaint the Children Check Out dialog, at which time all check boxes are 
reset.

Versioned
Don’t include versioned documents in the display (only include the current version)

Manual
Don’t include children whose association is based on manual relationships

Documents to Check Out or Copy
The “Documents to Check Out or Copy” Option affects all rows in the dialog. For example, in "Documents to 
Check Out or Copy", if you select Check Out from the dropdown list, and All from the option boxes, then all 
the documents in the entire list will be checked as well as all their children. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 31 of 43

The "Documents to Check Out or Copy" options will override any individual selections you have already made. 
After setting all these options, you can manually change the checkboxes on any row. 

Note: Documents to Check Out or Copy options only act on documents already displayed.

None: This clears all selections and blanks out all “rename to:” info

First Level: This applies the action you selected in the dropdown, either copy or check out, to all first-level 
documents that are already displayed. It will also include the documents you initially selected. All others will 
be cleared. 

All: This applies the action you selected in the dropdown, either copy or check out, to all displayed 
documents.

Destination Work Area
In this drop down, the user will select the target Work Area for the selected documents from a list of their 
currently available Adept Work Areas.  The list of Work Areas will be shown in the same format as the Work 
Areas are shown in the Adept Desktop Client.  If you have several Work Areas with the same name, you can 
change this list to reflect the path.  To do so, open the Work Area Window in Adept, and check the option 
that says Paths.  With this option enabled, the Child Check Out drop down list will show the Work Area Path 
instead of just the Work Area name.

Adept Library Access Rights and Status Implications
While this PlugIn automatically finds and presents the children to the user, the Adept status and Library 
Access Rights determine what the user is actually allowed to do with documents.  Adept Rights will apply to 
these children documents as well.  The Adept program itself will control what the user can select prior to 
issuing the Check Out command. Each of the child documents will be evaluated to determine exactly which 
actions the user has the rights to perform on the documents.  The relationship between Adept Rights, status, 
and the action of this PlugIn are described in more detail below:

Children in Libraries to Which the User Has No View Rights
It is possible that the child document could reside in a Library to which the user does not have View Rights. 
The user will not see those children.

Unresolved Children Records
Children documents that are unresolved do not have a corresponding record in the Adept database and 
therefore cannot be copied out or checked out. If an unresolved children document  is included in the tree 
it will be disabled.

Documents with status of In
When a document has the Adept status of In, Adept will evaluate the user’s Library rights for that 
document within that Library.  If a user has Check Out Rights then the default action for that document will 
be set to Check Out and the user can change it to Copy.  If the user does not have the Right to Check Out 
but does have the Right to Copy, then the default action for that document will be set to Copy.  If the user 
does not have Check Out or Copy Rights than the document will be disabled and the user cannot include it 
in the Selection Set.

Documents with status of Out
When a document has the Adept status of Out then it will be evaluated to determine if it is:

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 32 of 43

· out to the current user or 
· if the current Work Area is a Shared Work Area, it will be checked to see if this document is out in the 

current Shared Work Area

If either of these conditions is found to be true then the document will be disabled and the user cannot 
include it in the selection set.  If this is not true then the Library Rights will be evaluated to determine if the 
user has the ability to copy the document.  If the user has Copy Rights and the user chooses to include this 
document in the selection set then it will be allowed to be copied, but not checked out.

Documents with status of Arc
Documents with an Adept status of Arc will be disabled as you cannot check out or copy documents of this 
type.

Documents with status of Versioned
Versioned documents cannot be checked out of Adept. When a document has the Adept status of 
Versioned then it will be evaluated to determine if the user has Access Rights to copy this document.  If the 
user has rights to copy this document and the user includes it in the selection set, it will be copied out to 
the selected Work Area.  If the user does not have the Right to copy this document it will be disabled and 
cannot be included in the selection set.

Documents with status of Hold
When a document has the Adept status of Hold the Adept Workflow for the document will be evaluated to 
determine the user’s rights to the document.

Documents with status of AssignHold
When a document has the Adept status of AssignHold the Adept workflow for the document will be 
evaluated to determine the user’s abilities to the document.

Documents with status of New
When a document has the status of New, it will be disabled, since this type of document cannot be either 
checked out or copied.

Documents with status of Duplicate
When a document is found to have the status of Duplicate it will not be either checked out or copied.

Checking Out Children Documents on Workflow 
Adept will evaluate the rights of each child document that is included in this list. This evaluation will include 
the rights to check the child out from a Workflow step. If the user has the right to Check Out the document, 
then the user can include this document and the Check Out will be the default selection.  The user can change 
this to Copy instead.  If the user does not have the right to Check Out the document but does have the Copy 
Rights, then the user can include this document and the Copy will be the only selection active.  If the user 
does not have Check Out or Copy right to the document then the Include control for this document will be 
disabled.

Completing the Command

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 33 of 43

Once you fill in the grid with the selection, click OK.  The program progresses thru the Check Out. If it tries to 
check out a document that already has a document of the same name in the Work Area, it displays the 
following message.

The user selects one of the options, and the command continues. All documents that can be checked out are 
checked out. 

Prior to completing the command, the Work Area that is selected will be evaluated to make sure that 
filenames included in the selection set are not already present in that Work Area.  If any duplicated filenames 
are found, a dialog will appear showing the filenames which will be duplicated and asking the user how to 
proceed.  The user can choose to overwrite the duplicate, or else keep the duplicate and skip this record.  The 
option lets you pick yes or no for each duplicated document, or yes to all or no for all.

If no duplicated filenames are found then the selected operations on the selection set will be performed and 
the records will be checked out or copied out as you have indicated in the dialog.

Stop at AutoCAD Overlays affects the list of children in Children Check Out
The list of documents displayed by the Children Check Out PlugIn is influenced by the state of the "Stop at" 
options in the Workstation tab of the Adept options dialog. When these options are enabled, Children Check 
Out will stop searching for children when it encounters one of these objects. When disabled, all children will 
be included in Children Check Out. For more information, see the topic Options: Workstation.

Note: In this release of Adept, the Children Check Out command does not use the options to 
Stop at SOLIDWORKS In-context Relationships or Stop at Inventor Substitute 
References.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Children Check Out Overview and Configuration
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

Note: You can turn off operation of this PlugIn from your own Workstation by selecting from 
the Edit Menu, the PlugIn 

Overview
When a user checks out documents, the “Children Check Out” PlugIn will list the children of the selected 
documents in the “Check Out Documents” dialog. The children in this list can either be from relationships that 
were automatically created in supported CAD applications such as AutoCAD, Inventor, and SOLIDWORKS or 
the children can be from relationships that were created manually, using the Create/Edit Relationships dialog.

Enable/Disable the PlugIn on a Workstation
Under Workstation Options for Children Check Out there is a checkbox to Include Children.  When this 
checkbox is checked the Children Check Out PlugIn is active at check out.   When it is unchecked the Children 
Check Out PlugIn is inactive. Also available in this dialog is an option to make the radio button and checkbox 
options persistent.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 34 of 43

Configuration
When configuring this PlugIn, the Adept Administrator will choose one or both of the options to indicate 
which types of relationship to be included in the search for the purposes of checking out children with parent.
· Extracted relationships only
· Manual relationships only

Also, the Adept Administrator can configure this PlugIn to be engaged for specific groups, or for all users of 
Adept.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Copy Fields To Parent: Overview & Config
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable ones 
you will not.

The Copy Fields to Parent PlugIn will copy Adept metadata from one or more Data Card fields of a child into 
the Data Card of the corresponding parent.

Note: This PlugIn is specifically designed to help manage the properties of the drawing 
document associated with a model. In Adept, the drawing document is the parent of 
the model document.

In SOLIDWORKS and Inventor, to create a 2D representation of your model, you typically generate a drawing 
document (IDW for Inventor or SLDDRW for SOLIDWORKS), and add a title block to the drawing. To reduce 
manual data entry, it is customary to automatically populate this title block with information you already 
entered in the properties of the model. For example, you may have already entered Revision “A” into the 
model’s property, so you want the title block of the drawing to automatically reflect this Revision letter 
without retyping it.

Both SOLIDWORKS and Autodesk Inventor allow you to set up an automatic link from the property in the 
model to the text field in the title block. The issue in Adept is that SOLIDWORKS and Inventor create this link 
in such a way that it is invisible to Adept, and so, while Adept extracts the property (in this example, the 
Revision letter “A”) from the model, Adept does not see any value for this property in the drawing. 

Copy Fields to Parent automatically copies specified properties from the Data Card of the model to its 
corresponding field on the Data Card of the drawing. 

Optionally you can Update Document to copy data into Drawing’s document property
After this PlugIn copies data into the drawing’s Data Card, you can optionally instruct it to perform an Update 
Document command, and push the data from Adept’s Data Card back into the property of the drawing 
document itself.

Note: In both SOLIDWORKS and Inventor documents, if the Property does not already exist, 
the PlugIn will create it and copy the value from the drawing’s Adept Data Card to the 
document property. 

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 35 of 43

Configuration
You must be an Adept Admin to configure this PlugIn. To do so, access the configuration dialog from the 
Configure PlugIns command.  The Copy Fields to Parent Configuration dialog opens:

· This dialog has a section (on the left) called Copy Fields to Parent that is a listing of checkboxes in 
alphabetical order of all available custom data fields that the Admin can select to have data copied from a 
child to a parent document Data Card.  Scroll through the list with up or down arrows, or drag the scroll 
bar. There are no restrictions on the types of custom fields that can be enabled (i.e., data, date, 
extracted, numeric, restricted, text, etc.)  

· To select the field, simply click the checkbox. Click again to uncheck the field. Once the Admin clicks on 
the desired field, it is highlighted indicating field selection.
You can right-click in this list of fields and select “Check All”.

· A control box lets the Admin set a Maximum Number of Records to be Processed per execution of the 
command from 1 up to a 1000

· Choose which document type you intend to affect
SOLIDWORKS:  Copy from *.SLDASM and *.SLDPRT to *.SLDRW
Inventor:  Copy from *.IAM and *.IPT to *.IDW and *.DWG

· Update Extracted Fields in Parent Document
Perform Update Document in Parent
Overwrite Existing Data Card Metadata

Note:   The Admin can select any or all of these options as required

OK Button:
· The OK button remains grayed out and inaccessible until valid choices in all configuration fields are 

made.   At least one data field must be selected for the OK button to become functional.
· Clicking the OK button applies the selected options

Cancel:
· Click Cancel to discard the selected options.  After clicking Cancel, there is no additional confirming 

dialog.

Navigation:  Plugins >

Copy Fields To Parent: Operation
To access the Copy Fields to Parent command, select it from the Edit tab and select Start. It will be applied to 
all the documents you have selected at the time of execution. Having no documents selected will cause a 
dialog to let you know that to operate the command, you must select documents first. 

After the command is executed, it gives a confirmation dialog. To find which documents were processed by 
running this command, look in the log document in the following directory: 
C:\AdeptSupport\TmpFiles\[database]\[Username]Log.txt.  

Executing this command applies only to the documents you have selected in any Adept window.  The 
documents you select for this operation will be checked, and you will only be able to change ones for which 
you have the appropriate Library Access Rights. All documents that are processed will retain their changes 
and those changes cannot be undone.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 36 of 43

Note: While this PlugIn is executing, the mouse cursor will remain active. DO NOT use the 
mouse to make any selections in the Adept window until the PlugIn completes its 
execution and you receive the completion dialog message.

Note:  It is highly recommended you select the parent document(s) for execution of this 
PlugIn, rather than selecting the child document(s). This provides a more accurate 
selection of the documents that will be affected.

As the command executes:
· For each selected document, the PlugIn checks the document extensions. For every selected model, the 

PlugIn looks for a parent that is a drawing. For every drawing, the PlugIn looks for a child that is a model. 
· If a valid parent document and a valid child document are found, and the user has sufficient rights to 

permit the copy, then the data is copied. 
· If there is more than one valid parent or child document that meets the criteria, the first one will be used.

Note:  There is no way to know which document will be first

If there are no children documents or appropriate parent documents with the proper document extension, 
then no action occurs.

Note:   This PlugIn has been developed primarily to handle SOLIDWORKS and Inventor 
situations in which a drawing lacks document properties needed to fill in a 
document's Data Card.  In the majority of such cases, there will be a single first level 
child document for the selected parent.

Rights Access
Any user can execute Copy Fields to Parent.  However, successful completion of this command is determined 
by the user’s right to edit Data Cards and to perform the Update Document command on the target 
documents.  For example, if a user does not have the right to edit the Data Card of the parent document, then 
the command will not complete successfully.  The same is true if the user wants to perform an Update 
Document. If a user does not have the proper right to perform the Update Document command, then that 
part of the command will not complete successfully.

Command Completion
At the completion of this command:
· There is a confirmation dialog and a log document is created: 

C:\AdeptSupport\TmpFiles\[database]\[Username]Log.txt
· When the command completes execution, control will be returned back to the user
· All previously selected documents will remain selected

Error Handling
Any errors will be handled similarly to how errors are now handled with the Batch Update and Update 
Document commands; dialogs inform the user of their rights restrictions.  
See error examples below.

If a user attempts to execute this command using one or more documents where the user’s rights are not 
sufficient to complete the command, the appropriate message dialog will be shown for that document. 
 Clicking the OK button allows the command to continue execution.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 37 of 43

Navigation:  Plugins >

Copy Data Card Overview & Config
Overview
The Copy Data Card feature allows you to copy metadata from one Adept record and then paste that data 
into any number of others. The feature obeys all rights associated with Data Card data. For example, to paste 
into a Data Card, you must have the rights to edit the card.

The Administrator can configure the Copy Data Card feature to customize its appearance to users. This 
configuration might restrict access to some options, and force the behavior of others.

There are three such configuration options that control:
· copying memo fields
· overwriting fields that already contain data
· copying into extraction fields

The Copy Data Card function does not have any user interface. It simply copies the data into a buffer.  When 
you Paste Data Card, it will present a user interface that lets you select which field to copy.        

Configure the Copy Data Card Feature

Note: This feature is implemented as a PlugIn. To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the 
topic Administer PlugIns. To streamline Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you 
will actually be using, and disable ones you will not.

To access the Options for this feature, select the Configure PlugIns command.  In this dialog, you can set up 
what options the user will have at run time.

Always Paste / Always Ask User /  Never Paste
· Memo Field
· Extraction Fields
· Fields containing data

Note: Data will always be pasted into blank fields

Updating Documents after Pasting Extraction Fields
If you use this feature to Paste values into Extraction fields, the modified value in the Data Card will  no longer 
match the corresponding value in the document.  In that case, you can cause Adept to perform an Update 
Document  to push the data from the Data Card to the document.  To ensure that this happens automatically, 
set the Update Documents option in the Paste dialog.  Then after the Paste is performed, the data will be 
moved into the document immediately.  This operation may take a few minutes, depending on the number of 
documents and the speed of your server and network.

User Rights Needed to Copy Data Cards
· To Copy values from a Data Card, users only need View Rights
· To Paste values into a Data Card, users need Edit Data Card Rights

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 38 of 43

· To Paste into Protected Fields, users need Edit Protected Field Rights
· To Paste into Extraction Fields, users need Update Documents rights

Navigation:  Plugins >

Copy Data Card Operation
To Copy Metadata From a Record

1. Select only one record
Only one document can be selected during the Copy Data Card operation.  
If you select many documents, an error results. 

No data is copied and you must repeat the operation with only one document selected.
2. Select the Copy command in the Data Card panel on the Edit tab of the ribbon.

Selecting this menu item copies metadata into a buffer.  If it succeeds, no message is displayed.

To Paste Metadata To a Record
1. Select one or more documents you want to paste into.
2. From the Edit tab, select the Paste command in the Data Card panel. 

The resulting dialog offers options.  You can copy the memo field, overwrite fields containing data, or write 
into Extraction fields.  Some of these options across the top may be inactive, as determined by the 
Administrator.  The “Select all” option is a toggle.  Click once to select all.  Click again to unselect all. The 
Update Document option is only active when you enable Extraction Fields.

Note About Update Document:  If you write into Extraction fields, then the data in your 
document could be different than the data in your Data Card. One solution to this 
difference would be to check the Update Document option. If you do so, Adept will 
attempt to update the field in the document. Keep in mind that if you have pasted this 
data card into a large number of documents, the update of each document could take 
time. 

Note: When pasting to logical fields, the Overwrite option to paste into "Fields containing 
data" must be used. Logical fields always have a value even if the value is not shown 
in the Data Card.

Each available field can be selected to paste, or unselected, in which case it will not be pasted.

If the Paste fails, a dialog will list the documents that were not successfully pasted.  You can then proceed, 
pasting the remaining documents, with the rest or cancel the Paste operation.

Paste error report
Before the Paste operation is initiated, Adept checks to see if this is a legal operation.  If so, the operation will 
succeed with no user interaction. 

If the user did not have rights to paste into a field or Data Card, a dialog appears with a list of the error 
messages.  You can either click OK to continue pasting the ones that will succeed or Cancel to stop the entire 
operation.

Navigation:  Plugins >

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 39 of 43

Print or Publish with PublishWave PlugIn
When the PublishWave PlugIn has been installed and configured on the workstation, and when you have 
access to the PublishWave Server, you can send documents to the server where they will a) be printed 
through the native application or b) converted to a standard publishing format (PDF, DWF, or TIF) or c) simply 
passed through to an output location.

Users can initiate the PublishWave PlugIn by selecting Using PublishWave command on the Document tab of 
Adept. (The exact menu choice will depend on options selected when PublishWave was configured.)

When users select documents, and then selects the Print PublishWave command, the PlugIn displays a dialog 
called a Job Request. 
This Job Request form lists the documents you selected, and allows you to enter parameters to control the 
overall job as well as to control the output of each document.

1. At the top of the form, select the PublishWave server.
2. On the right of the form, for each document, select parameters including size, scale, rotation, and 

location
3. The Device lets you select a printer, or select a conversion format if you are sending to a published 

document

The bottom parameters control the behavior of PublishToAdept. 
When your Administrator has established the PublishToAdept program, you can set the parameters for this 
action in these fields in order to return your documents to an Adept Library.

Action
The Published document, once it is in the Output Location, is a candidate to be moved by PublishToAdept. 
This field instructs PublishToAdept to Check In, Copy In, or do nothing to the document in the Output 
Location. 

None
The None option (default) will do nothing and all other settings in this section are grayed out. 

Check In
When you select Check In, the published document is checked in to Adept, and the document in the Output 
Location is removed. 

Copy In
When you select Copy In, the document in the Output Location is checked in to Adept, leaving behind a 
copy of the document in the work area. This will be useful when you want both copies, the one in the 
Output Location and the one checked into the Library. 

Destination
This option specifies where the document will go when it is checked in to Adept.  The options in this 
dropdown are Same Library (default) and Specified Library. 

Same Library

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 40 of 43

Selecting this option indicates  the Published document is to be checked into the same library as its source 
document

Specified Library
When you select Specified Library, the “Library” option becomes active and the user must select from the 
list

Library
If the user selects Specified Library for the destination, this option lists all libraries the user has rights to 
check into.  If the user selects Same Library, then a dash "-" will be displayed in this area.

Relationship
When PublishToAdept checks the document into an Adept Library, this option creates a relationship 
between the published document and its source document.  The Published document is the one that 
PublishWave has moved to the Output Location, and the Source is the document that you Published 
originally from Adept.  The options are None, Parent, and Child. 

None
If None, then no relationship is made.  The default is None.

Parent
This option makes make the published document the parent of the source document.

Child
If Child, then the Published document is Child of the source document. 

Include Metadata
When PublishToAdept checks the file into an Adept Library, the default is to give the checked in file the same 
metadata as the originating file.  The “First Document” setting is used to have this occur.  Should you want 
some custom metadata or none at all, those options can be specified and will be used when the file is 
checked in to Adept.

Metadata
Should you select “Custom” in the Include Metadata column, this option becomes available.  You can define 
specific metadata for any and each Adept custom field.  That metadata will be applied to the file being 
checked into Adept by PublishToAdept.

To learn more about the PublishToAdept options, review the document: PublishWave Server Administration 
User Guide. 

Navigation:  Plugins >

Required Fields Overview
Note: To enable or disable Adept PlugIns, see the topic Administer PlugIns.  To streamline 

Adept performance, only enable PlugIns you will actually be using, and disable those 
you will not.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 41 of 43

With the Required Fields PlugIn, Administrators can require that Users complete specified fields in the Data 
Card before Check In, Check Out or Approval is permitted to continue.  This will enforce Company standard 
data entry, improve the integrity of the database and improve searching.  The Required Fields PlugIn 
integrates seamlessly with Adept’s extraction and restricted fields.

Note: Extreme caution must be used when making edits to restricted lists and related fields 
due to the ability for Adept to include these in the configuration of Required Fields.  It 
is the responsibility of the person making edits to restricted lists and related fields to 
ensure that those edits do not create incompatibilities with the usage of Required 
Fields.

Note: Do not configure a field configured as a Related Field as a Required Field.  The two 
field types are incompatible and unexpected results will occur.

The following sections are available:

Required Fields Configuration

Required Fields Operation

Navigation:  Plugins > Required Fields Overview >

Required Fields Configuration
Select the Configure PlugIns command on the System tab of the ribbon. Then select the Required Fields PlugIn 
from the list. The following dialog will be shown.

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 42 of 43

Using this dialog, the Required Field settings are assigned to a library.  When Library settings are applied to 
one library, the settings are inherited by all libraries below it in the hierarchical folders nested underneath it. 
 The settings apply to directories down the tree, until a library is encountered in which different settings are 
assigned.  Those new settings then apply further down the tree until yet another different setting is 
encountered. 

Library Settings

Check the appropriate options to specify when Adept will request the value in the required fields. 

Check In When this option is checked, checking a document in to a Library (unchecked or 
checked) will trigger Required Fields.

Check Out When this option is checked, checking a document out of a Library will trigger Required 
Fields.

Approve (Return to When this option is checked, approving a document on the last step when it is returned 
Library) to a Checked Library will trigger Required Fields. Approve is defined as the last approval 

step where the document’s status will change to IN.  Any approvals inside a Workflow, 
where the document’s status remains HOLD, will not engage the Required Fields PlugIn.

Required Fields Listing
A listing of all the available Custom Fields is displayed in the Required Fields listing section of the dialog box. 
 Note that System Fields are not included in this list because these fields are not editable by Users.  Also, 
Numeric and Logical fields will not be listed because these field types always return a value even when empty.
To select which fields are required, check the box next to each desired value in the Required Fields Listing.

Note: Do not configure a field configured as a Related Field as a Required Field. The two field 
types are incompatible and unexpected results will occur.

Note: Although Adept permits fields defined as Required to also be configured as Restricted 
and Related fields, resulting behavior can be unpredictable.  It is the responsibility of 
the administrator to ensure that those fields do not create incompatibilities with the 
usage of Required Fields.

Apply Required Fields
In this section, you can restrict the type of documents these Required Field rules apply to for the selected 
library.  By specifying the document extensions, you can engage or disengage the Required Fields PlugIn for 
specific document types, even though they might reside in the same library. 

All File Extensions                        
Selecting this option will cause the document’s extension to be ignored and all documents will trigger 
Required Fields

To File Extensions listed
Selecting this option will cause Required Fields to be triggered for any document with an extension listed. 

To File Extensions NOT listed

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026



Microsoft Word: Workstation PlugIn Options Page 43 of 43

Selecting this option will cause Required Fields to be triggered for any document with an extension not 
listed.         

Use the "+' ( ) and "-" ( ) buttons to add or subtract extensions to the list.  The extension may be added 
with, or without the preceding period.  The dialog will add the period if it is not found and will convert the 
extension to uppercase. You may enter more than one document extension.

See Also
Required Fields Operation

Navigation:  Plugins > Required Fields Overview >

Required Fields Operation
When a command is performed that has been configured to engage the Required Fields PlugIn, Adept verifies 
that all the Adept data fields defined as ‘required’ have data present. If not, the User is prompted to complete 
any fields that are not already completed.

Within the dialog that lists the missing data, the user can edit the required fields. The document will not be 
moved forward in a Workflow until all required fields are completed.

For Check In and Approve, if the field is an extraction field for a document type that supports Update 
Document and the User has Update Document rights, the value entered will be updated in Adept as well as 
written out to the tag, attribute, or property in the document itself.

The Required Fields PlugIn engages only during the specified action (Check In, Check Out, or Final Approve to 
library) and does not prevent a user with the appropriate rights from editing those fields at any other time.

When files are being processed by Required Fields, the options to Cancel and Cancel All will be presented in 
the dialog. Selecting Cancel cancels only the current document and allows Required Fields to proceed to the 
next document. Selecting Cancel All cancels all subsequent documents from being processed by Required 
Fields.

Data changes in Adept are governed by the Adept Library Access Rights to Update Document, Edit Data Cards 
in Library, and Edit Protected Fields. Make sure any user who will need to fill in required fields has sufficient 
access rights. If a user does not have sufficient Library Access Rights, then they will not be able to satisfy the 
required field. Also be aware the Admin option settings for extraction of database fields will be applied. In the 
case of “Blank data in the database when the extraction item exists in the document and is blank,” values 
entered by users who do not have update document rights could be blanked on final extraction.

Known limitation with using the Data Exporter with Required Fields
If you are using the Required Fields PlugIn on Check In or Approve, and the same data fields are selected in 
both Required Fields and the Data Exporter, the data in these fields is updated after the Data Exporter sends 
its output and will not be reflected in the Data Exporter output.

See Also
Required Fields Configuration

file:///C:/Users/vgiordano/AppData/Local/Temp/~hhF633.htm 3/9/2026